
Become an associate member   before August 7th!  
 
 
Bash is the GNU Project's shell.  Bash is the Bourne Again SHell.
Bash is an sh-compatible shell that
incorporates useful features from the Korn shell (ksh) and C shell
(csh).  It is intended to conform to the IEEE POSIX P1003.2/ISO 9945.2
Shell and Tools standard.  It offers functional improvements over sh
for both programming and interactive use.  In addition, most sh scripts
can be run by Bash without modification. The improvements offered by Bash include: The maintainer also has a   which
includes  . Bash
can be found on the main GNU ftp server:
 
(via HTTP) and
 
(via FTP).  It can also be found
on the  ;
please
  if possible. 
is available online, as
is  .  You may
also find more information about
Bash
by running
 
or
 ,
or by looking at
 ,
 ,
or similar directories on your system.  A brief summary is available by
running  . 
To ask for help about bash, bash programming or bash shell scripting
please use the
 
mailing list.  To report bugs or to discuss most aspects of developing
bash please use the
 
mailing list. Announcements about
Bash
and most other GNU software are made on
 . To subscribe to these or any GNU mailing lists, please send an empty
mail with a Subject: header of just   to the relevant
-request list.  For example, to subscribe yourself to the GNU
announcement list, you would send mail to  .
Or you can use the  . Development of
Bash,
and GNU in general, is a volunteer effort, and you can contribute.  For
information, please read  .  If you'd
like to get involved, it's a good idea to join the discussion mailing
list (see above). Bash
is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
terms of the   as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version. Please send general FSF & GNU inquiries to
 .
There are also  
the FSF.  Broken links and other corrections or suggestions can be sent
to  . Please see the   for information on coordinating and submitting translations
of this article. Copyright © 2007, 2009, 2011, 2014 Free Software Foundation, Inc. This page is licensed under a  . Updated:
  timestamp start  
$Date: 2017/12/15 10:46:14 $
  timestamp end  
 