 |   |  Simply put, the shell is a program that takes
	commands from the keyboard and gives them to
	the operating system to perform. In the old days,
	it was the only user interface available on a Unix-like
	system such as Linux. Nowadays, we have   in addition to   such as the shell. On most Linux systems a program called   (which stands
	for Bourne Again SHell, an enhanced version of the
	original Unix shell program,  , written by Steve Bourne) acts as the
	shell program. Besides  , there are other shell programs
	that can be installed in a Linux system. These
	include:  ,   and  . It's a program called a  . This is a
	program that opens a window and lets you interact
	with the shell. There are a bunch of different
	terminal emulators you can use. Most Linux
	distributions supply several, such as:
	 ,
	 ,
	 ,
	 ,
	 ,
	 ,
	and  . Your window manager probably has a way to launch
	a terminal from the menu. Look through the list of
	programs to see if anything looks like a terminal
	emulator. If you are a KDE user, the terminal program is
	called "konsole," in Gnome it's called "gnome-terminal."
	You can
	start up as many of these as you want and play with
	them. While there are a number of different
	terminal emulators, they all do the same thing.
	They give you access to a shell session. You will
	probably develop a preference for one, based on the
	different bells and whistles each one provides. OK, let's try some typing. Bring up a terminal
	window. You should see a   that contains
	your user name and the name of the machine followed
	by a dollar sign. Something like this: Excellent! Now type some nonsense characters and
	press the enter key.   If all went well, you should have gotten an
	error message complaining that it cannot understand
	you:   Wonderful! Now press the up-arrow key. Watch how
	our previous command "kdkjflajfks" returns. Yes, we
	have  . Press the down-arrow
	and we get the blank line again. Recall the "kdkjflajfks" command using the
	up-arrow key if needed. Now, try the left and
	right-arrow keys. You can position the text cursor
	anywhere in the command line. This allows you to
	easily correct mistakes. If the last character of your shell
	prompt is # rather than $, you are
	operating as the  . This means that you
	have administrative privileges. This can be potentially
	dangerous, since you are able to delete or overwrite
	any file on the system. Unless you absolutely need
	administrative privileges, do not operate as the
	superuser. Even though the shell is a command line
	interface, the mouse is still handy. Besides using the mouse to scroll the contents
	of the terminal window, you can copy text with the mouse. Drag
	your mouse over some text (for example,
	"kdkjflajfks" right here on the browser window)
	while holding down the left button. The text should
	highlight. Release the left button and move your mouse
	pointer to the terminal window and press the middle 
	mouse button (alternately, you can press both the left
	and right buttons at the same time if you are working on a
	touch pad).
	The text you highlighted in the browser window
	should be copied into the command line. When you installed your Linux system and its
	window manager (most likely Gnome or KDE), it was
	configured to behave in some ways like that legacy
	operating system. In particular, it probably has its   set to "click to focus." This means that
	in order for a window to gain focus (become active)
	you have to click in the window. This is contrary
	to traditional X Window behavior. You should consider
	setting the focus policy to "focus follows mouse". 
	You may find it strange
	at first that windows don't raise to the front when
	they get focus (you have to click on the window
	to do that), but you will enjoy being able to work
	on more than one window at once without having the
	active window obscuring the the other. Try it and
	give it a fair trial; I think you will like it. You
	can find this setting in the configuration tools
	for your window manager.  |   |   |  
		© 2000-2020,
		 
		Verbatim copying and distribution of this entire article is
		permitted in any medium, provided this copyright notice is preserved. Linux® is a registered trademark of Linus Torvalds. 