Short for "Bourne-Again Shell,"   is a    . Originally released in   as a free replacement for the  ,   is part of the  . Bash is the default shell in  ,  , and the majority of   operating systems.  is an  -compatible command language   that executes commands read from the   or from a file.   also incorporates useful features from the   and     (  and  ).  is intended to be a conformant implementation of the Shell and Utilities portion of the     specification (IEEE Standard 1003.1).   can be configured to be POSIX-conformant by default. All of the single-  shell options documented in the description of the   builtin command can be used as options when invoking  . The following options are also available:   If the   option is present, then commands are read from  . If there are   after the string, they are assigned to the positional  , starting with  . If the   option is present, the shell is interactive. For more information about interactive shells, see  , below. Make   act as if it had been invoked as a   shell. See the " " section below for more details. If the   option is present, the shell becomes restricted (see the " " section below for more details. If the   option is present, or if no arguments remain after option processing, then commands are read from the  . This option allows the positional parameters to be set when invoking an interactive shell. A list of all double-quoted strings preceded by   is printed on the standard output. These are the strings that are subject to language translation when the current locale is not C or POSIX. This implies the   option; no commands will be executed. [ ]  [ ]  is one of the shell options accepted by the   builtin (see the section " " for details). If   is present,   sets the value of that option;   unsets it. If   is not supplied, the names and values of the shell options accepted by shopt are printed on the standard output. If the invocation option is  , the output is displayed in a format that may be reused as input. A   signals the end of options and disables further option processing. Any arguments after the   are treated as filenames and arguments. An argument of   is equivalent to  .  also interprets a number of multi-character options. These options must appear on the command line before the single-character options to be recognized: Arrange for the debugger profile to be executed before the shell starts. Turns on extended debugging mode (see the description of the   option to the   builtin below). Equivalent to  , but the output is in the     (portable object) file format. equivalent to  . Display a usage message and exit.   ,  Execute commands from   instead of the system-wide initialization file   and the standard personal initialization file   if the shell is interactive (see the " " section below for details). Equivalent to  Do not use the GNU   library to read command lines when the shell is interactive. Do not read either the system-wide startup file   or any of the personal initialization files  ,  , or  . By default,   reads these files when it is invoked as a login shell (see the " " section below for details). Do not read and execute the system-wide initialization file   and the personal initialization file   if the shell is interactive. This option is on by default if the shell is invoked as  . Change the behavior of   where the default operation differs from the POSIX standard to match the standard. The shell becomes restricted (see the " " section below for details). Equivalent to  . Show version information for this instance of   and exit. If arguments remain after option processing, and neither the   nor the   option has been supplied, the first argument is assumed to be the name of a file containing shell commands. If   is invoked in this fashion,   is set to the name of the file, and the positional parameters are set to the remaining arguments.   reads and executes commands from this file, then exits.  's exit status is the exit status of the last command executed in the script. If no commands are executed, the exit status is 0. An attempt is first made to open the file in the current directory, and if no file is found, the shell searches the directories in   for the script. A login shell is one whose first character of argument zero is a  , or one started with the   option. An interactive shell is one started without non-option arguments and without the   option whose standard input and error are both connected to terminals (as determined by  ), or one started with the   option.   (  string) is set and   includes   if   is interactive, allowing a shell script or a startup file to test this state. The following paragraphs describe how   executes its startup files. If any of the files exist but cannot be read,   reports an error. Tildes are expanded in filenames as described below under " " in the " " section. When   is invoked as an interactive login shell, or as a non-interactive shell with the   option, it first reads and executes commands from the file  , if that file exists. After reading that file, it looks for  ,  , and  , in that order, and reads and executes commands from the first one that exists and is readable. The   option may be used when the shell is started to inhibit this behavior. When a login shell exits,   reads and executes commands from the file  , if it exists. When an interactive shell that is not a login shell is started,   reads and executes commands from   and  , if these files exist. This may be inhibited by using the   option. The   file option will force   to read and execute commands from file instead of   and  . When   is started non-interactively, to run a shell  , for example, it looks for the variable   in the environment, expands its value if it appears there, and uses the expanded value as the name of a file to read and execute.   behaves as if the following command were executed: but the value of the   variable is not used to search for the file name. If   is invoked with the name  , it tries to mimic the startup behavior of historical versions of   as closely as possible, while conforming to the   standard as well. When invoked as an interactive login shell, or a non-interactive shell with the   option, it first attempts to read and execute commands from   and  , in that order. The   option may be used to inhibit this behavior. When invoked as an interactive shell with the name  ,   looks for the variable  , expands its value if it is defined, and uses the expanded value as the name of a file to read and execute. Since a shell invoked as   does not attempt to read and execute commands from any other startup files, the   option has no effect. A non-interactive shell invoked with the name   does not attempt to read any other startup files. When invoked as  ,   enters posix mode after the startup files are read. When   is started in posix mode, as with the   command line option, it follows the POSIX standard for startup files. In this mode, interactive shells expand the   variable and commands are read and executed from the file whose name is the expanded value. No other startup files are read.  attempts to determine when it is being run with its standard input connected to a network connection, as when executed by the    , usually  , or the   daemon  . If   determines it is being run in this fashion, it reads and executes commands from   and  , if these files exist and are readable. It will not do this if invoked as  . The   option may be used to inhibit this behavior, and the   option may be used to force another file to be read, but   does not generally invoke the shell with those options or allow them to be specified. If the shell is started with the effective user (or group) id not equal to the real user (or group) id, and the   option is not supplied, no startup files are read, shell functions are not inherited from the environment, the  ,  ,  , and   variables, if they appear in the environment, are ignored, and the effective user id is set to the real user id. If the   option is supplied at invocation, the startup behavior is the same, but the effective user id is not reset. In the following sections, these terms are defined as follows: a blank space or tab. a sequence of characters considered as a single unit by the shell. Also known as a  a   consisting only of   characters and underscores, and beginning with alphabetic character or an underscore. Also referred to as an  . a character that, when unquoted, separates words. A   metacharacter is one of the following:  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , or  . a   that performs a control function. It is one of the following symbols:  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , or a newline.  are words that have special meaning to the shell. The following words are recognized as reserved when unquoted and either the first word or a simple command (see the " " section below), or the third word of a   or   command: Simple Commands A   is an optional sequence of variable assignments followed by blank-separated words and redirections, and terminated by a control operator. The first word specifies the command to be executed, and is passed as argument zero. The remaining words are passed as arguments to the invoked command. The return value of a simple command is its exit status, or   if the command is terminated by signal  . Pipelines A   is a sequence of one or more commands separated by one of the control operators   or  . The format for a pipeline is: The standard output of   is connected via a pipe to the standard input of  . This connection is performed before any redirections specified by the command (see the " " section below for details). If   is used, the standard error of   is connected to  's standard input through the pipe; it is shorthand for  . This implicit redirection of the standard error is performed after any redirections specified by the command. The return status of a pipeline is the exit status of the last command, unless the   option is enabled. If   is enabled, the pipeline's return status is the value of the last (rightmost) command to exit with a non-zero status, or zero if all commands exit successfully. If the reserved word   precedes a pipeline, the exit status of that pipeline is the logical negation of the exit status as described above. The shell waits for all commands in the pipeline to terminate before returning a value. If the   reserved word precedes a pipeline, the elapsed as well as user and system time consumed by its execution are reported when the pipeline terminates. The   option changes the output format to that specified by POSIX. When the shell is in posix mode, it does not recognize   as a reserved word if the next token begins with a ' '. The   variable may be set to a format string that specifies how the timing information should be displayed; see the description of   in the " " section below for details. When the shell is in posix mode,   may be followed by a newline. In this case, the shell displays the total user and system time consumed by the shell and its children. The   variable may be used to specify the format of the time information. Each command in a pipeline is executed as a separate process (a subshell). Lists A   is a sequence of one or more pipelines separated by one of the operators  ,  ,  , or  , and optionally terminated by one of  ,  , or  . Of these list operators,   and   have equal precedence, followed by   and  , which have equal precedence. A sequence of one or more newlines may appear in a list instead of a semicolon to delimit commands. If a command is terminated by the control operator  , the shell executes the command in the background in a subshell. The shell does not wait for the command to finish, and the return status is 0. Commands separated by a   are executed sequentially; the shell waits for each command to terminate in turn. The return status is the exit status of the last command executed.  and   lists are sequences of one of more pipelines separated by the   and   control operators, respectively.   and   lists are executed with left associativity. An   list has the form  is executed if, and only if,   returns an exit status of zero. An   list has the form  is executed if and only if   returns a non-zero exit status. The return status of   and   lists is the exit status of the last command executed in the list. Compound Commands A   is one of the following:  is executed in a subshell environment (see the " " section below for details). Variable assignments and builtin commands that affect the shell's environment do not remain in effect after the command completes. The return status is the exit status of list.    is executed in the current shell environment. The   must be terminated with a newline or semicolon. This is known as a  . The return status is the exit status of  . Note that unlike the metacharacters   and  ,   and   are reserved words and must occur where a reserved word is permitted to be recognized. Since they do not cause a word break, they must be separated from list by whitespace or another shell metacharacter. The   is evaluated according to the rules described below in the section " ". If the value of the expression is non-zero, the return status is 0; otherwise the return status is 1. This is exactly equivalent to  .     Return a status of 0 or 1 depending on the evaluation of the conditional expression  . Expressions are composed of the primaries described below under the section " ." Word splitting and   expansion are not performed on the words between the   and  ; tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, arithmetic expansion, command substitution, process substitution, and quote removal are performed. Conditional operators such as   must be unquoted to be recognized as primaries. When used with  , the   and   operators sort lexicographically using the current locale. See the description of the   builtin command (in the section " " below) for the handling of parameters (i.e. missing parameters). When the   and   operators are used, the string to the right of the operator is considered a pattern and matched according to the rules described below under Pattern Matching. If the shell option   is enabled, the match is performed without regard to the case of alphabetic characters. The return value is 0 if the string matches ( ) or does not match ( ) the pattern, and 1 otherwise. Any part of the pattern may be quoted to force it to be matched as a string. An additional binary operator,  , is available, with the same precedence as   and  . When it is used, the string to the right of the operator is considered an extended regular expression and matched accordingly (as in  ). The return value is 0 if the string matches the pattern, and 1 otherwise. If the regular expression is syntactically incorrect, the conditional expression's return value is 2. If the shell option   is enabled, the match is performed without regard to the case of alphabetic characters. Any part of the pattern may be quoted to force it to be matched as a string. Substrings matched by parenthesized subexpressions within the regular expression are saved in the array variable  . The element of BASH_REMATCH with index 0 is the portion of the string matching the entire regular expression. The element of BASH_REMATCH with index   is the portion of the string matching the  th parenthesized subexpression. Expressions may be combined using the following operators, listed in decreasing order of precedence: Returns the value of  . This may be used to override the normal precedence of operators. True if   is false. True if both   and   are true. True if either   or   is true. The   and   operators do not evaluate   if the value of   is sufficient to determine the return value of the entire conditional expression. The list of  s following   is expanded, generating a list of items. The variable   is set to each element of this list in turn, and   is executed each time. If the   word is omitted, the   command executes   once for each positional parameter that is set (see the " " section below). The return status is the exit status of the last command that executes. If the expansion of the items following   results in an empty list, no commands are executed, and the return status is  . First, the arithmetic expression   is evaluated according to the rules described below under " ". The arithmetic expression   is then evaluated repeatedly until it evaluates to zero. Each time   evaluates to a non-zero value,   is executed and the arithmetic expression   is evaluated. If any expression is omitted, it behaves as if it evaluates to 1. The return value is the exit status of the last command in   that is executed, or false if any of the expressions is invalid. The list of  s following   is expanded, generating a list of items. The set of expanded words is printed on the standard error, each preceded by a number. If the in word is omitted, the positional parameters are printed (see the " " section below). The   prompt is then displayed and a line read from the standard input. If the line consists of a number corresponding to one of the displayed words, then the value of   is set to that word. If the line is empty, the words and prompt are displayed again. If   is read, the command completes. Any other value read causes name to be set to  . The line read is saved in the variable  . The list is executed after each selection until a   command is executed. The exit status of   is the exit status of the last command executed in  , or zero if no commands were executed. A   command first expands  , and tries to match it against each   in turn, using the same matching rules as for pathname expansion (see the " " section, below). The   is expanded using tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, arithmetic substitution, command substitution, process substitution and quote removal. Each pattern examined is expanded using tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, arithmetic substitution, command substitution, and process substitution. If the shell option   is enabled, the match is performed without regard to the case of alphabetic characters. When a match is found, the corresponding   is executed. If the   operator is used, no subsequent matches are attempted after the first pattern match. Using   in place of   causes execution to continue with the   associated with the next set of  s. Using   in place of   causes the shell to test the next   in the statement, if any, and execute any associated   on a successful match. The exit status is zero if no   matches. Otherwise, it is the exit status of the last command executed in  . The     is executed. If its exit status is zero, the     is executed. Otherwise, each     is executed in turn, and if its exit status is zero, the corresponding     is executed and the command completes. Otherwise, the     is executed, if present. The exit status is the exit status of the last command executed, or zero if no condition tested true. The   command continuously executes the list   as long as the last command in the list   returns an exit status of zero. The   command is identical to the   command, except that the test is negated;   is executed as long as the last command in   returns a non-zero exit status. The exit status of the   and   commands is the exit status of the last command executed in  , or zero if none was executed. Coprocesses A "coprocess" is a shell command preceded by the   reserved word. A   is executed asynchronously in a subshell, as if the command had been terminated with the   control operator, with a two-way pipe established between the executing shell and the coprocess. The format for a coprocess is: This creates a coprocess named  . If   is not supplied, the default name is  . The   must not be supplied if   is a simple command (see  ); otherwise, it is interpreted as the first word of the simple command. When the   is executed, the shell creates an array variable (see the " " section below) named   in the context of the executing shell. The standard output of   is connected via a pipe to a file descriptor in the executing shell, and that file descriptor is assigned to  [0]. The standard input of   is connected via a pipe to a file descriptor in the executing shell, and that file descriptor is assigned to  [1]. This pipe is established before any redirections specified by the command (see the " " section below). The file descriptors can be utilized as arguments to shell commands and redirections using standard word expansions. The   of the shell spawned to execute the coprocess is available as the value of the variable  . The   builtin command may be used to wait for the coprocess to terminate. The return status of a coprocess is the exit status of command. Shell Function Definitions A   is an object that is called like a simple command and executes a   with a new set of positional parameters. Shell functions are declared as follows: This defines a function named  . The reserved word   is optional. If the   reserved word is supplied, the parentheses are optional. The body of the function is the compound command   (see " " section above). That command is usually a list of commands between   and  , but may be any command listed under Compound Commands above. The   is executed whenever   is specified as the name of a simple command. Any redirections (see " " section below) specified when a function is defined are performed when the function is executed. The exit status of a function definition is zero unless a syntax error occurs or a readonly function with the same name already exists. When executed, the exit status of a function is the exit status of the last command executed in the body. See " " section below. In a non-interactive shell, or an interactive shell in which the   option to the   builtin is enabled (see " " section below), a word beginning with   causes that word and all remaining characters on that line to be ignored. An interactive shell without the   option enabled does not allow comments. The   option is on by default in interactive shells.  is used to remove the special meaning of certain characters or words to the shell. Quoting can be used to disable special treatment for special characters, to prevent reserved words from being recognized as such, and to prevent parameter expansion. Each of the metacharacters listed above under the " " section has special meaning to the shell and must be quoted if it is to represent itself. When the command history expansion facilities are being used (see the " " section below), the history expansion character, usually  , must be quoted to prevent history expansion. There are three quoting mechanisms: the escape character, single quotes, and double quotes. A non-quoted backslash ( ) is the escape character. It preserves the literal value of the next character that follows, with the exception of  . If a   pair appears, and the backslash is not itself quoted, the   is treated as a line continuation (that is, it is removed from the input stream and effectively ignored). Enclosing characters in single quotes preserves the literal value of each character within the quotes. A single quote may not occur between single quotes, even when preceded by a backslash. Enclosing characters in double quotes preserves the literal value of all characters within the quotes, with the exception of  ,  ,  , and, when history expansion is enabled,  . The characters   and   retain their special meaning within double quotes. The backslash retains its special meaning only when followed by one of the following characters:  ,  ,  ,  , or  . A double quote may be quoted within double quotes by preceding it with a backslash. If enabled, history expansion will be performed unless an   appearing in double quotes is escaped using a backslash. The backslash preceding the   is not removed. The special parameters   and   have special meaning when in double quotes (see the section " " below). Words of the form   are treated specially. The word expands to string, with backslash-escaped characters replaced as specified by the   C standard. Backslash escape sequences, if present, are decoded as follows: alert (bell) backspace ,  an escape character form feed new line carriage return horizontal tab vertical tab backslash single quote double quote the eight-bit character whose value is the   value   (one to three digits) the eight-bit character whose value is the   value   (one or two hex digits) the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the hexadecimal value   (one to four hex digits) the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the hexadecimal value   (one to eight hex digits) a control-  character The expanded result is single-quoted, as if the dollar sign had not been present. A double-quoted string preceded by a dollar sign ( ) will cause the string to be translated according to the current locale. If the current locale is   or  , the dollar sign is ignored. If the string is translated and replaced, the replacement is double-quoted. A   is an entity that stores values. It can be a name, a number, or one of the special characters listed below under Special Parameters. A variable is a parameter denoted by a name. A variable has a value and zero or more attributes. Attributes are assigned using the   builtin command (see   below in the " " section). A parameter is set if it has been assigned a value. The null string is a valid value. Once a variable is set, it may be unset only by using the   builtin command (also documented in the " " section). A variable may be assigned by a statement of the form: If   is not given, the variable is assigned the null string. All values undergo tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion, and quote removal (see the section " " below). If the variable has its integer attribute set, then value is evaluated as an arithmetic expression even if the   expansion is not used (see the section " " below). Word splitting is not performed, with the exception of " " as explained below under  . Pathname expansion is not performed. Assignment statements may also appear as arguments to the  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and   builtin commands. In the context where an assignment statement is assigning a value to a shell variable or array index, the   operator can be used to append to or add to the variable's previous value. When   is applied to a variable for which the integer attribute has been set,   is evaluated as an arithmetic expression and added to the variable's current value, which is also evaluated. When   is applied to an array variable using compound assignment (see " " below), the variable's value is not unset (as it is when using  ), and new values are appended to the array beginning at one greater than the array's maximum index (for indexed arrays) or added as additional key-value pairs in an associative array. When applied to a string-valued variable, value is expanded and appended to the variable's value. Positional parameters A   is a parameter denoted by one or more digits, other than the single digit 0. Positional parameters are assigned from the shell's arguments when it is invoked, and may be reassigned using the   builtin command. Positional parameters may not be assigned to with assignment statements. The positional parameters are temporarily replaced when a shell function is executed (see the section " " below). When a positional parameter consisting of more than a single digit is expanded, it must be enclosed in braces (see the section " " below). Special parameters The shell treats several parameters specially. These parameters may only be referenced; assignment to them is not allowed. Expands to the positional parameters, starting from one. When the expansion occurs within double quotes, it expands to a single word with the value of each parameter separated by the first character of the IFS special variable. That is, " " is equivalent to " ", where   is the first character of the value of the   variable. If IFS is unset, the parameters are separated by spaces. If IFS is null, the parameters are joined without intervening separators. The   Expands to the positional parameters, starting from one. When the expansion occurs within double quotes, each parameter expands to a separate word. That is, " " is equivalent to " " " " ... If the double-quoted expansion occurs within a word, the expansion of the first parameter is joined with the beginning part of the original word, and the expansion of the last parameter is joined with the last part of the original word. When there are no positional parameters, " " and   expand to nothing (i.e., they are removed). Expands to the number of positional parameters in decimal. Expands to the exit status of the most recently executed foreground pipeline. Expands to the current option flags as specified upon invocation, by the   builtin command, or those set by the shell itself (such as the   option). The   Expands to the process ID of the shell. In a   subshell, it expands to the process ID of the current shell, not the subshell. Expands to the process ID of the most recently executed background (asynchronous) command. Expands to the name of the shell or shell script. This is set at shell initialization. If   is invoked with a file of commands,   is set to the name of that file. If bash is started with the   option, then   is set to the first argument after the string to be executed, if one is present. Otherwise, it is set to the file name used to invoke bash, as given by argument zero. At shell startup, set to the absolute pathname used to invoke the shell or shell script being executed as passed in the environment or argument list. Subsequently, expands to the last argument to the previous command, after expansion. Also set to the full pathname used to invoke each command executed and placed in the environment exported to that command. When checking mail, this parameter holds the name of the mail file currently being checked. Shell variables The following variables are set by the shell: Expands to the full file name used to invoke this instance of bash. A colon-separated list of enabled shell options. Each word in the list is a valid argument for the   option to the   builtin command (see the section " " below). The options appearing in   are those reported as on by  . If this variable is in the environment when bash starts up, each shell option in the list will be enabled before reading any startup files. This variable is read-only. Expands to the process ID of the current bash process. This differs from   under certain circumstances, such as subshells that do not require bash to be re-initialized. An associative array variable whose members correspond to the internal list of aliases as maintained by the alias builtin. Elements added to this array appear in the alias list;  ting array elements cause aliases to be removed from the alias list. An array variable whose values are the number of parameters in each frame of the current bash execution call stack. The number of parameters to the current subroutine (shell function or script executed with . or source) is at the top of the stack. When a subroutine is executed, the number of parameters passed is pushed onto  . The shell sets   only when in extended debugging mode (see the description of the   option to the   builtin below) An array variable containing all of the parameters in the current bash execution call stack. The final parameter of the last subroutine call is at the top of the stack; the first parameter of the initial call is at the bottom. When a subroutine is executed, the parameters supplied are pushed onto  . The shell sets   only when in extended debugging mode (see the description of the   option to the   builtin below) An associative array variable whose members correspond to the internal hash table of commands as maintained by the   builtin. Elements added to this array appear in the hash table;  ting array elements cause commands to be removed from the hash table. The command currently being executed or about to be executed, unless the shell is executing a command as the result of a trap, in which case it is the command executing at the time of the trap. The command argument to the   invocation option. An array variable whose members are the line numbers in source files where each corresponding member of   was invoked. The   is the line number in the source file ( ) where   was called (or   if referenced within another shell function). Use   to obtain the current line number. An array variable whose members are assigned by the   binary operator to the   conditional command. The element with index 0 is the portion of the string matching the entire regular expression. The element with index   is the portion of the string matching the nth parenthesized subexpression. This variable is read-only. An array variable whose members are the source filenames where the corresponding shell function names in the   array variable are defined. The shell function   is defined in the file   and called from  Incremented by one each time a subshell or subshell environment is spawned. The initial value is 0. A readonly array variable whose members hold version information for this instance of bash. The values assigned to the array members are as follows: : The major version number (the release). : The minor version number (the version). : The patch level. : The build version. : The release status (e.g., beta1). : The value of MACHTYPE. Expands to a string describing the version of this instance of bash. An index into   of the word containing the current cursor position. This variable is available only in shell functions invoked by the programmable completion facilities (see " " below). The key (or final key of a key sequence) used to invoke the current completion function. The current command line. This variable is available only in shell functions and external commands invoked by the programmable completion facilities (see "  below). The index of the current cursor position relative to the beginning of the current command. If the current cursor position is at the end of the current command, the value of this variable is equal to  . This variable is available only in shell functions and external commands invoked by the programmable completion facilities (see the section " " below). Set to an integer value corresponding to the type of completion attempted that caused a completion function to be called:  , for normal completion,  , for listing completions after successive tabs,  , for listing alternatives on partial word completion,  , to list completions if the word is not unmodified, or  , for menu completion. This variable is available only in shell functions and external commands invoked by the programmable completion facilities (see the section " " below). The set of characters that the readline library treats as word separators when performing word completion. If   is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset. An array variable (see " " below) consisting of the individual words in the current command line. The line is split into words as   would split it, using   as described above. This variable is available only in shell functions invoked by the programmable completion facilities (see the section " " below). An array variable (see " " below) created to hold the file descriptors for output from and input to an unnamed coprocess (see the section " " above). An array variable (see the section " " below) containing the current contents of the directory stack. Directories appear in the stack in the order they are displayed by the   builtin. Assigning to members of this array variable may be used to modify directories already in the stack, but the   and   builtins must be used to add and remove directories. Assignment to this variable will not change the current directory. If   is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset. Expands to the effective user ID of the current user, initialized at shell startup. This variable is readonly. An array variable containing the names of all shell functions currently in the execution call stack. The element with index 0 is the name of any currently-executing shell function. The bottom-most element (the one with the highest index) is "main". This variable exists only when a shell function is executing. Assignments to   have no effect and return an error status. If   is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset. This variable can be used with   and  . Each element of   has corresponding elements in   and   to describe the call stack. For instance,   was called from the file   at line number  . The   builtin displays the current call stack using this information. An array variable containing the list of groups of which the current user is a member. Assignments to   have no effect and return an error status. If   is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset. The history number, or index in the history list, of the current command. If   is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset. Automatically set to the name of the current host. Automatically set to a string that uniquely describes the type of machine on which bash is executing. The default is system-dependent. Each time this parameter is referenced, the shell substitutes a decimal number representing the current sequential line number (starting with 1) within a script or function. When not in a script or function, the value substituted is not guaranteed to be meaningful. If   is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset. Automatically set to a string that fully describes the system type on which bash is executing, in the standard GNU cpu-company-system format. The default is system- dependent. An array variable (see the " " section below) created to hold the text read by the   builtin when no variable name is supplied. The previous working directory as set by the   command. The value of the last option argument processed by the   builtin command (see the section " " below). The index of the next argument to be processed by the   builtin command (see the section " " below). Automatically set to a string that describes the operating system on which bash is executing. The default is system-dependent. An array variable (see the section " " below) containing a list of exit status values from the processes in the most-recently-executed foreground pipeline (which may contain only a single command). The process ID of the shell's parent. This variable is readonly. The current working directory as set by the   command. Each time this parameter is referenced, a random integer between 0 and 32767 is generated. The sequence of random numbers may be initialized by assigning a value to  . If   is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset. The contents of the   line buffer, for use with " " (see the section " " below). The position of the insertion point in the   line buffer, for use with " " (see the section " " below). Set to the line of input read by the read builtin command when no arguments are supplied. Each time this parameter is referenced, the number of seconds since shell invocation is returned. If a value is assigned to  , the value returned upon subsequent references is the number of seconds since the assignment plus the value assigned. If   is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset. A colon-separated list of enabled shell options. Each word in the list is a valid argument for the   option to the   builtin command (see the section " " below). The options appearing in   are those reported as on by set  . If this variable is in the environment when bash starts up, each shell option in the list will be enabled before reading any startup files. This variable is read-only. Incremented by one each time an instance of bash is started. Expands to the user ID of the current user, initialized at shell startup. This variable is readonly. The following variables are used by the shell. In some cases, bash assigns a default value to a variable; these cases are noted below. If this parameter is set when bash is executing a shell script, its value is interpreted as a filename containing commands to initialize the shell, as in  . The value of   is subjected to parameter expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion before being interpreted as a file name.   is not used to search for the resultant file name. If set to an integer corresponding to a valid file descriptor, bash will write the trace output generated when set   is enabled to that file descriptor. The file descriptor is closed when   is unset or assigned a new value.  ting   or assigning it the empty string causes the trace output to be sent to the standard error. Note that setting   to 2 (the standard error file descriptor) and then  ting it will result in the standard error being closed. The search path for the   command. This is a colon-separated list of directories in which the shell looks for destination directories specified by the   command. A sample value is " ". Used by the select compound command to determine the terminal width when printing selection lists. Automatically set upon receipt of a  . An array variable from which bash reads the possible completions generated by a shell function invoked by the programmable completion facility (see " " below). If bash finds this variable in the environment when the shell starts with value " ", it assumes that the shell is running in an Emacs shell buffer and disables line editing. Similar to  ; used when the shell is invoked in POSIX mode. The default editor for the   builtin command. A colon-separated list of suffixes to ignore when performing filename completion (see the section " " below). A filename whose suffix matches one of the entries in   is excluded from the list of matched filenames. A sample value is " " (Quoting is needed when assigning a value to this variable, which contains tildes). If set to a numeric value greater than 0, defines a maximum function nesting level. Function invocations that exceed this nesting level will cause the current command to abort. A colon-separated list of patterns defining the set of filenames to be ignored by pathname expansion. If a filename matched by a pathname expansion pattern also matches one of the patterns in  , it is removed from the list of matches. A colon-separated list of values controlling how commands are saved on the history list. If the list of values includes  , lines which begin with a space character are not saved in the history list. A value of   causes lines matching the previous history entry to not be saved. A value of   is shorthand for   and  . A value of   causes all previous lines matching the current line to be removed from the history list before that line is saved. Any value not in the above list is ignored. If   is unset, or does not include a valid value, all lines read by the shell parser are saved on the history list, subject to the value of  . The second and subsequent lines of a multi-line compound command are not tested, and are added to the history regardless of the value of  . The name of the file in which command history is saved (see the section " " below). The default value is  . If unset, the command history is not saved when an interactive shell exits. The maximum number of lines contained in the history file. When this variable is assigned a value, the history file is truncated, if necessary, by removing the oldest entries, to contain no more than that number of lines. The default value is 500. The history file is also truncated to this size after writing it when an interactive shell exits. A colon-separated list of patterns used to decide which command lines should be saved on the history list. Each pattern is anchored at the beginning of the line and must match the complete line (no implicit ' ' is appended). Each pattern is tested against the line after the checks specified by   are applied. In addition to the normal shell pattern matching characters, ' ' matches the previous history line. ' ' may be escaped using a backslash; the backslash is removed before attempting a match. The second and subsequent lines of a multi-line compound command are not tested, and are added to the history regardless of the value of  . The number of commands to remember in the command history (see the section " " below). The default value is 500. If this variable is set and not null, its value is used as a format string for   to print the time stamp associated with each history entry displayed by the   builtin. If this variable is set, time stamps are written to the history file so they may be preserved across shell sessions. This uses the history comment character to distinguish timestamps from other history lines. The home directory of the current user; the default argument for the   builtin command. The value of this variable is also used when performing tilde expansion. Contains the name of a file in the same format as   that should be read when the shell needs to complete a  . The list of possible hostname completions may be changed while the shell is running; the next time hostname completion is attempted after the value is changed, bash adds the contents of the new file to the existing list. If   is set, but has no value, or does not name a readable file, bash attempts to read   to obtain the list of possible hostname completions. When   is unset, the   list is cleared. The Internal Field Separator that is used for word splitting after expansion and to split lines into words with the   builtin command. The default value is " ". Controls the action of an interactive shell on receipt of an EOF character as the sole input. If set, the value is the number of consecutive EOF characters which must be typed as the first characters on an input line before bash exits. If the variable exists but does not have a numeric value, or has no value, the default value is 10. If it does not exist, EOF signifies the end of input to the shell. The filename for the   startup file, overriding the default of   (see the section " " below). Used to determine the locale category for any category not specifically selected with a variable starting with  . This variable overrides the value of   and any other   variable specifying a locale category. This variable determines the collation order used when sorting the results of pathname expansion, and determines the behavior of range expressions, equivalence classes, and collating sequences within pathname expansion and pattern matching. This variable determines the interpretation of characters and the behavior of character classes within pathname expansion and pattern matching. This variable determines the locale used to translate double-quoted strings preceded by a  . This variable determines the locale category used for number formatting. Used by the select compound command to determine the column length for printing selection lists. Automatically set upon receipt of a  . If this parameter is set to a file or directory name and the   variable is not set, bash informs the user of the arrival of mail in the specified file or Maildir-format directory. Specifies how often (in seconds) bash checks for mail. The default is 60 seconds. When it is time to check for mail, the shell does so before displaying the primary prompt. If this variable is unset, or set to a value that is not a number greater than or equal to zero, the shell disables mail checking. A colon-separated list of file names to be checked for mail. The message to be printed when mail arrives in a particular file may be specified by separating the file name from the message with a ' '. When used in the text of the message,   expands to the name of the current  . Example:  Bash supplies a default value for this variable, but the location of the user mail files that it uses is system dependent (e.g.,  ). If set to the value 1, bash displays error messages generated by the   builtin command (see the section " " below).   is initialized to 1 each time the shell is invoked or a shell script is executed.   The search path for commands. It is a colon-separated list of directories in which the shell looks for commands (see the section " " below). A zero-length (null) directory name in the value of   indicates the current directory. A null directory name may appear as two adjacent colons, or as an initial or trailing colon. The default path is system-dependent, and is set by the administrator who installs bash. A common value is " ". If this variable is in the environment when bash starts, the shell enters posix mode before reading the startup files, as if the   invocation option had been supplied. If it is set while the shell is running, bash enables posix mode, as if the command set   had been executed. If set, the value is executed as a command before issuing each primary prompt. If set to a number greater than zero, the value is used as the number of trailing directory components to retain when expanding the   and   prompt string escapes (see the section " " below). Characters removed are replaced with an ellipsis. The value of this parameter is expanded (see " " below) and used as the primary prompt string. The default value is "  ". The value of this parameter is expanded as with   and used as the secondary prompt string. The default is "  ". The value of this parameter is used as the prompt for the select command (see the section " " above). The value of this parameter is expanded as with   and the value is printed before each command bash displays during an execution trace. The first character of   is replicated multiple times, as necessary, to indicate multiple levels of indirection. The default is "  ". The full pathname to the shell is kept in this environment variable. If it is not set when the shell starts, bash assigns to it the full pathname of the current user's login shell. The value of this parameter is used as a format string specifying how the timing information for pipelines prefixed with the time reserved word should be displayed. The   character introduces an escape sequence that is expanded to a time value or other information. The escape sequences and their meanings are as follows; the braces denote optional portions. : A literal  . : The elapsed time in seconds. : The number of CPU seconds spent in user mode. : The number of CPU seconds spent in system mode. : The CPU percentage, computed as (  +  ) /  . The optional   is a digit specifying the precision, the number of fractional digits after a decimal point. A value of 0 causes no decimal point or fraction to be output. At most three places after the decimal point may be specified; values of   greater than 3 are changed to 3. If   is not specified, the value 3 is used. The optional   specifies a longer format, including minutes, of the form  . The value of   determines whether or not the fraction is included. If this variable is not set, bash acts as if it had the value  . If the value is null, no timing information is displayed. A trailing newline is added when the format string is displayed. If set to a value greater than zero,   is treated as the default timeout for the   builtin. The select command terminates if input does not arrive after   seconds when input is coming from a terminal. In an interactive shell, the value is interpreted as the number of seconds to wait for input after issuing the primary prompt. Bash terminates after waiting for that number of seconds if input does not arrive. If set, bash uses its value as the name of a directory in which bash creates temporary files for the shell's use. This variable controls how the shell interacts with the user and job control. If this variable is set, single word simple commands without redirections are treated as candidates for resumption of an existing stopped job. There is no ambiguity allowed; if there is more than one job beginning with the string typed, the job most recently accessed is selected. The name of a stopped job, in this context, is the command line used to start it. If set to the value exact, the string supplied must match the name of a stopped job exactly; if set to substring, the string supplied needs to match a substring of the name of a stopped job. The substring value provides functionality analogous to the   job identifier (see the section " " below). If set to any other value, the supplied string must be a prefix of a stopped job's name; this provides functionality analogous to the   job identifier. The two or three characters which control history expansion and tokenization (see the section " " below). The first character is the history expansion character, the character that signals the start of a history expansion, normally ' '. The second character is the quick substitution character, which is used as shorthand for re-running the previous command entered, substituting one string for another in the command. The default is ' '. The optional third character is the character that indicates that the remainder of the line is a comment when found as the first character of a word, normally ' '. The history comment character causes history substitution to be skipped for the remaining words on the line. It does not necessarily cause the shell parser to treat the rest of the line as a comment. Bash provides one-dimensional indexed and associative   variables. Any variable may be used as an indexed array; the   builtin will explicitly declare an array. There is no maximum limit on the size of an array, nor any requirement that members be indexed or assigned contiguously. Indexed arrays are referenced using integers (including arithmetic expressions) and are zero-based; associative arrays are referenced using arbitrary strings. An indexed array is created automatically if any variable is assigned to using the syntax  . The subscript is treated as an arithmetic expression that must evaluate to a number. If subscript evaluates to a number less than zero, it is used as an offset from one greater than the array's maximum index (so a subscript of   refers to the last element of the array). To explicitly declare an indexed array, use declare   name (see the section " " below).     is also accepted; the subscript is ignored. Associative arrays are created using declare   name. Attributes may be specified for an array variable using the   and   builtins. Each attribute applies to all members of an array. Arrays are assigned to using compound assignments of the form   ...  , where each value is of the form  . Indexed array assignments do not require the bracket and subscript. When assigning to indexed arrays, if the optional brackets and subscript are supplied, that index is assigned-to; otherwise the index of the element assigned is the last index assigned to by the statement plus one. Indexing starts at zero. When assigning to an associative array, the subscript is required. This syntax is also accepted by the   builtin. Individual array elements may be assigned to using the   syntax introduced above. Any element of an array may be referenced using  . The braces are required to avoid conflicts with pathname expansion. If subscript is   or  , the word expands to all members of name. These subscripts differ only when the word appears within double quotes. If the word is double-quoted,   expands to a single word with the value of each array member separated by the first character of the   special variable, and   expands each element of name to a separate word. When there are no array members,   expands to nothing. If the double-quoted expansion occurs within a word, the expansion of the first parameter is joined with the beginning part of the original word, and the expansion of the last parameter is joined with the last part of the original word. This is analogous to the expansion of the special parameters   and   (see the section " " above).   expands to the length of  . If   is   or  , the expansion is the number of elements in the array. Referencing an array variable without a subscript is equivalent to referencing the array with a subscript of 0. An array variable is considered set if a subscript has been assigned a value. The null string is a valid value. The   builtin is used to destroy arrays.     destroys the array element at index  . Care must be taken to avoid unwanted side effects caused by pathname expansion.    , where   is an array, or    , where   is   or  , removes the entire array. The  ,  , and   builtins each accept a   option to specify an indexed array and a   option to specify an associative array. If both options are supplied,   takes precedence. The   builtin accepts a   option to assign a list of words read from the standard input to an array. The   and   builtins display array values in a way that allows them to be reused as assignments.  is performed on the command line after it has been split into words. There are seven kinds of expansion performed: brace expansion, tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion, word splitting, and pathname expansion. The order of expansions is: brace expansion, tilde expansion, parameter, variable and arithmetic expansion and command substitution (done in a left-to-right fashion), word splitting, and pathname expansion. On systems that can support it, there is an additional expansion available: process substitution. Only brace expansion, word splitting, and pathname expansion can change the number of words of the expansion; other expansions expand a single word to a single word. The only exceptions to this are the expansions of " " and " " as explained above (see the section " "). Brace expansion is a mechanism by which arbitrary strings may be generated. This mechanism is similar to pathname expansion, but the filenames generated need not exist. Patterns to be brace expanded take the form of an optional preamble, followed by either a series of comma-separated strings or a sequence expression between a pair of braces, followed by an optional postscript. The preamble is prefixed to each string contained within the braces, and the postscript is then appended to each resulting string, expanding left to right. Brace expansions may be nested. The results of each expanded string are not sorted; left to right order is preserved. For example,   expands into ' '. A sequence expression takes the form  .. [.. ] , where   and   are either integers or single characters, and  , an optional increment, is an integer. When integers are supplied, the expression expands to each number between   and  , inclusive. Supplied integers may be prefixed with 0 to force each term to have the same width. When either   or   begins with a zero, the shell attempts to force all generated terms to contain the same number of digits, zero-padding where necessary. When characters are supplied, the expression expands to each character lexicographically between   and  , inclusive. Note that both   and   must be of the same type. When the increment is supplied, it is used as the difference between each term. The default increment is 1 or -1 as appropriate. Brace expansion is performed before any other expansions, and any characters special to other expansions are preserved in the result. It is strictly textual. Bash does not apply any syntactic interpretation to the context of the expansion or the text between the braces. A correctly-formed brace expansion must contain unquoted opening and closing braces, and at least one unquoted comma or a valid sequence expression. Any incorrectly formed brace expansion is left unchanged. A   or   may be quoted with a backslash to prevent its being considered part of a brace expression. To avoid conflicts with parameter expansion, the string   is not considered eligible for brace expansion. This construct is typically used as shorthand when the common prefix of the strings to be generated is longer than in the above example: or Brace expansion introduces a slight incompatibility with historical versions of  .   does not treat opening or closing braces specially when they appear as part of a word, and preserves them in the output. Bash removes braces from words as a consequence of brace expansion. For example, a word entered to sh as   appears identically in the output. The same word is output as   after expansion by bash. If strict compatibility with   is desired, start bash with the   option or disable brace expansion with the   option to the set command (see the section " " below). If a word begins with an unquoted tilde character (' '), all of the characters preceding the first unquoted slash (or all characters, if there is no unquoted slash) are considered a tilde-prefix. If none of the characters in the tilde-prefix are quoted, the characters in the tilde-prefix following the tilde are treated as a possible login name. If this login name is the null string, the tilde is replaced with the value of the shell parameter  . If   is unset, the home directory of the user executing the shell is substituted instead. Otherwise, the tilde-prefix is replaced with the home directory associated with the specified login name. If the tilde-prefix is a ' ', the value of the shell variable   replaces the tilde-prefix. If the tilde-prefix is a ' ', the value of the shell variable  , if it is set, is substituted. If the characters following the tilde in the tilde-prefix consist of a number  , optionally prefixed by a ' ' or a ' ', the tilde-prefix is replaced with the corresponding element from the directory stack, as it would be displayed by the   builtin invoked with the tilde-prefix as an argument. If the characters following the tilde in the tilde-prefix consist of a number without a leading ' ' or ' ', ' ' is assumed. If the login name is invalid, or the tilde expansion fails, the word is unchanged. Each variable assignment is checked for unquoted tilde-prefixes immediately following a   or the first  . In these cases, tilde expansion is also performed. Consequently, one may use file names with tildes in assignments to  ,  , and  , and the shell assigns the expanded value. The ' ' character introduces parameter expansion, command substitution, or arithmetic expansion. The parameter name or symbol to be expanded may be enclosed in braces, which are optional but serve to protect the variable to be expanded from characters immediately following it which could be interpreted as part of the name. When braces are used, the matching ending brace is the first ' ' not escaped by a backslash or within a quoted string, and not within an embedded arithmetic expansion, command substitution, or parameter expansion.  Here is table briefly describing each bash parameter expansion form, and how it behaves depending on the value of  . As you can see, if the expansion form includes a colon (" "), there is an alternate behavior when   is set, but its value is Null (which is equivalent to the single-quoted empty string,  ). If   is not set at all, behavior is the same with or without a colon. The following descriptions go into a bit more detail: Here, the value of   is substituted. The braces are required when   is a positional parameter with more than one digit, or when   is followed by a character that is not to be interpreted as part of its name. If the first character of   is an exclamation point ( ), a level of variable indirection is introduced. Bash uses the value of the variable formed from the rest of   as the name of the variable; this variable is then expanded and that value is used in the rest of the substitution, rather than the value of   itself. This is known as  . The exceptions to this are the expansions of   and   described below. The exclamation point must immediately follow the left brace to introduce indirection. In each of the cases below,   is subject to tilde expansion, parameter expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion. When not performing substring expansion, using the forms documented below, bash tests for a parameter that is unset or null. Omitting the colon results in a test only for a parameter that is unset, bypassing the test if the parameter is null. Use Default Values. If   is unset or null, the expansion of   is substituted. Otherwise, the value of   is substituted. Assign Default Values. If   is unset or null, the expansion of   is assigned to  . The value of   is then substituted. Positional parameters and special parameters may not be assigned to in this way. Display Error if Null or Unset. If   is null or unset, the expansion of   (or a message to that effect if   is not present) is written to the standard error and the shell, if it is not interactive, exits. Otherwise, the value of   is substituted. Use Alternate Value. If   is null or unset, nothing is substituted, otherwise the expansion of   is substituted. Substring Expansion. Expands to up to   characters of   starting at the character specified by  . If   is omitted, expands to the substring of   starting at the character specified by  . The   and   are arithmetic expressions (see the section " " below). If   evaluates to a number less than zero, the value is used as an offset from the end of the value of  . Arithmetic expressions starting with a   must be separated by whitespace from the preceding   to be distinguished from the Use Default Values expansion. If length evaluates to a number less than zero, and parameter is not   and not an indexed or associative array, it is interpreted as an offset from the end of the value of parameter rather than a number of characters, and the expansion is the characters between the two offsets. If   is  , the result is   positional parameters beginning at  . If   is an indexed array name subscripted by   or  , the result is the   members of the array beginning with  [ ] . A negative offset is taken relative to one greater than the maximum index of the specified array. Substring expansion applied to an associative array produces undefined results. Note that a negative offset must be separated from the colon by at least one space to avoid being confused with the   expansion. Substring indexing is zero-based unless the positional parameters are used, in which case the indexing starts at 1 by default. If offset is 0, and the positional parameters are used,   is prefixed to the list. Names matching  . Expands to the names of variables whose names begin with  , separated by the first character of the   special variable. When   is used and the expansion appears within double quotes, each variable name expands to a separate word. List of array keys. If   is an array variable, expands to the list of array indices (keys) assigned in name. If   is not an array, expands to 0 if name is set and null otherwise. When   is used and the expansion appears within double quotes, each key expands to a separate word. Parameter length. The length in characters of the value of   is substituted. If parameter is   or  , the value substituted is the number of positional parameters. If   is an array name subscripted by   or  , the value substituted is the number of elements in the array. Remove matching prefix pattern. The   is expanded to produce a pattern just as in pathname expansion. If the pattern matches the beginning of the value of  , then the result of the expansion is the expanded value of parameter with the shortest matching pattern (the " " case) or the longest matching pattern (the " " case) deleted. If parameter is   or  , the pattern removal operation is applied to each positional parameter in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list. If parameter is an array variable subscripted with   or  , the pattern removal operation is applied to each member of the array in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list. Remove matching suffix pattern. The   is expanded to produce a pattern just as in pathname expansion. If the pattern matches a trailing portion of the expanded value of  , then the result of the expansion is the expanded value of   with the shortest matching pattern (the " " case) or the longest matching pattern (the " " case) deleted. If parameter is   or  , the pattern removal operation is applied to each positional parameter in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list. If parameter is an array variable subscripted with   or  , the pattern removal operation is applied to each member of the array in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list. Pattern substitution. The   is expanded to produce a pattern just as in pathname expansion. The   is expanded and the longest match of   against its value is replaced with string. If   begins with  , all matches of   are replaced with  . Normally only the first match is replaced. If   begins with  , it must match at the beginning of the expanded value of  . If   begins with  , it must match at the end of the expanded value of  . If   is null, matches of   are deleted and the   following pattern may be omitted. If   is   or  , the substitution operation is applied to each positional parameter in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list. If   is an array variable subscripted with   or  , the substitution operation is applied to each member of the array in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list. Case modification. This expansion modifies the case of alphabetic characters in  . The   is expanded to produce a pattern just as in pathname expansion. The   operator converts lowercase letters matching pattern to uppercase; the   operator converts matching uppercase letters to lowercase. The   and   expansions convert each matched character in the expanded value; the   and   expansions match and convert only the first character in the expanded value. If   is omitted, it is treated like a  , which matches every character. If   is   or  , the case modification operation is applied to each positional parameter in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list. If parameter is an array variable subscripted with   or  , the case modification operation is applied to each member of the array in turn, and the expansion is the resultant list.  allows the output of a command to replace the command name. There are two forms: or Bash performs the expansion by executing   and replacing the command substitution with the standard output of the command, with any trailing newlines deleted. Embedded newlines are not deleted, but they may be removed during word splitting. The command substitution   can be replaced by the equivalent but faster  . When the old-style backquote form of substitution is used, backslash retains its literal meaning except when followed by  ,  , or  . The first backquote not preceded by a backslash terminates the command substitution. When using the   form, all characters between the parentheses make up the command; none are treated specially. Command substitutions may be nested. To nest when using the backquoted form, escape the inner backquotes with backslashes. If the substitution appears within double quotes, word splitting and pathname expansion are not performed on the results.  allows the evaluation of an arithmetic expression and the substitution of the result. The format for arithmetic expansion is: The old format   is deprecated and will be removed in upcoming versions of bash. The   is treated as if it were within double quotes, but a double quote inside the parentheses is not treated specially. All tokens in the expression undergo parameter expansion, string expansion, command substitution, and quote removal. Arithmetic expansions may be nested. The evaluation is performed according to the rules listed below under the section " ." If   is invalid, bash prints a message indicating failure and no substitution occurs. Process substitution is supported on systems that support named pipes ( s) or the   method of naming open files. It takes the form of   or  . The process   is run with its input or output connected to a FIFO or some file in  . The name of this file is passed as an argument to the current command as the result of the expansion. If the   form is used, writing to the file will provide input for list. If the   form is used, the file passed as an argument should be read to obtain the output of list. When available, process substitution is performed simultaneously with parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion. The shell scans the results of parameter expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion that did not occur within double quotes for word splitting. The shell treats each character of   as a  , and splits the results of the other expansions into words on these characters. If   is unset, or its value is exactly  , the default, then sequences of  ,  , and   at the beginning and end of the results of the previous expansions are ignored, and any sequence of IFS characters not at the beginning or end serves to delimit words. If IFS has a value other than the default, then sequences of the whitespace characters space and tab are ignored at the beginning and end of the word, as long as the whitespace character is in the value of IFS (an IFS whitespace character). Any character in IFS that is not IFS whitespace, along with any adjacent IFS whitespace characters, delimits a field. A sequence of IFS whitespace characters is also treated as a delimiter. If the value of IFS is null, no word splitting occurs. Explicit null arguments (  or  ) are retained. Unquoted implicit null arguments, resulting from the expansion of parameters that have no values, are removed. If a parameter with no value is expanded within double quotes, a null argument results and is retained. Note that if no expansion occurs, no splitting is performed. After word splitting, unless the   option has been set, bash scans each word for the characters  ,  , and  . If one of these characters appears, then the word is regarded as a pattern, and replaced with an alphabetically sorted list of file names matching the pattern. If no matching file names are found, and the shell option   is not enabled, the word is left unchanged. If the   option is set, and no matches are found, the word is removed. If the   shell option is set, and no matches are found, an error message is printed and the command is not executed. If the shell option   is enabled, the match is performed without regard to the case of alphabetic characters. Note that when using range expressions like   (see the next section, " "), letters of the other case may be included, depending on the setting of  . When a pattern is used for pathname expansion, the character " " at the start of a name or immediately following a slash must be matched explicitly, unless the shell option   is set. When matching a pathname, the slash character must always be matched explicitly. In other cases, the " " character is not treated specially. See the description of   below under the section " " for a description of the  ,  ,  , and   shell options. The   shell variable may be used to restrict the set of file names matching a pattern. If   is set, each matching file name that also matches one of the patterns in   is removed from the list of matches. The file names " " and "  are always ignored when   is set and not null. However, setting   to a non-null value has the effect of enabling the   shell option, so all other file names beginning with a " " will match. To get the old behavior of ignoring file names beginning with a " ", make " " one of the patterns in  . The   option is disabled when   is unset. Any character that appears in a pattern, other than the special pattern characters described below, matches itself. The   character may not occur in a pattern. A backslash escapes the following character; the escaping backslash is discarded when matching. The special pattern characters must be quoted if they are to be matched literally. The special pattern characters have the following meanings: Matches any string, including the null string. When the   shell option is enabled, and   is used in a pathname expansion context, two adjacent  s used as a single pattern will match all files and zero or more directories and subdirectories. If followed by a  , two adjacent  s will match only directories and subdirectories. Matches any single character. Matches any one of the enclosed characters. A pair of characters separated by a hyphen denotes a range expression; any character that sorts between those two characters, inclusive, using the current locale's collating sequence and character set, is matched. If the first character following the   is a   or a   then any character not enclosed is matched. The sorting order of characters in range expressions is determined by the current locale and the value of the   shell variable, if set. A   may be matched by including it as the first or last character in the set. A   may be matched by including it as the first character in the set. Within   and  , character classes can be specified using the syntax  , where   is one of the following classes defined in the POSIX standard: A character class matches any character belonging to that class. The word character class matches letters, digits, and the character  . Within   and  , an equivalence class can be specified using the syntax  , which matches all characters with the same collation weight (as defined by the current locale) as the character  . Within   and  , the syntax   matches the collating symbol  . If the   shell option is enabled using the   builtin, several extended pattern matching operators are recognized. In the following description, a   is a list of one or more patterns separated by a  . Composite patterns may be formed using one or more of the following sub-patterns: Matches zero or one occurrence of the given patterns Matches zero or more occurrences of the given patterns Matches one or more occurrences of the given patterns Matches one of the given patterns Matches anything except one of the given patterns After the preceding expansions, all unquoted occurrences of the characters  ,  , and   that did not result from one of the above expansions are removed. Before a command is executed, its input and output may be   using a special notation interpreted by the shell. Redirection may also be used to open and close files for the current shell execution environment. The following redirection operators may precede or appear anywhere within a simple command or may follow a command. Redirections are processed in the order they appear, from left to right. Each redirection that may be preceded by a file descriptor number may instead be preceded by a word of the form  . In this case, for each redirection operator except   and  , the shell will allocate a file descriptor greater than 10 and assign it to  . If   or   is preceded by  , the value of   defines the file descriptor to close. In the following descriptions, if the file descriptor number is omitted, and the first character of the redirection operator is  , the redirection refers to the standard input (file descriptor 0). If the first character of the redirection operator is  , the redirection refers to the standard output (file descriptor 1). The word following the redirection operator in the following descriptions, unless otherwise noted, is subjected to brace expansion, tilde expansion, parameter expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion, quote removal, pathname expansion, and word splitting. If it expands to more than one word, bash reports an error. Note that the order of redirections is significant. For example, the command directs both standard output and standard error to the file  , while the command directs only the standard output to file  , because the standard error was duplicated from the standard output before the standard output was redirected to  . Bash handles several filenames specially when they are used in redirections, as described in the following table: If   is a valid integer, file descriptor   is duplicated. File descriptor 0 is duplicated. File descriptor 1 is duplicated. File descriptor 2 is duplicated. If   is a valid hostname or Internet address, and port is an integer port number or service name, bash attempts to open a   connection to the corresponding socket. If   is a valid hostname or Internet address, and port is an integer port number or service name, bash attempts to open a   connection to the corresponding socket. A failure to open or create a file causes the redirection to fail. Redirections using file descriptors greater than 9 should be used with care, as they may conflict with file descriptors the shell uses internally. Note that the exec builtin command can make redirections take effect in the current shell. Redirection of input causes the file whose name results from the expansion of   to be opened for reading on file descriptor  , or the standard input (file descriptor 0) if   is not specified. The general format for redirecting input is: Redirection of output causes the file whose name results from the expansion of   to be opened for writing on file descriptor  , or the standard output (file descriptor 1) if   is not specified. If the file does not exist it is created; if it does exist it is truncated to zero size. The general format for redirecting output is: If the redirection operator is  , and the   option to the   builtin has been enabled, the redirection will fail if the file whose name results from the expansion of   exists and is a regular file. If the redirection operator is  , or the redirection operator is   and the   option to the   builtin command is not enabled, the redirection is attempted even if the file named by word exists. Redirection of output in this fashion causes the file whose name results from the expansion of   to be opened for appending on file descriptor  , or the standard output (file descriptor 1) if   is not specified. If the file does not exist it is created. The general format for appending output is: This construct allows both the standard output (file descriptor 1) and the standard error output (file descriptor 2) to be redirected to the file whose name is the expansion of  . There are two formats for redirecting standard output and standard error: and Of the two forms, the first is preferred. This is semantically equivalent to This construct allows both the standard output (file descriptor 1) and the standard error output (file descriptor 2) to be appended to the file whose name is the expansion of  . The format for appending standard output and standard error is: This is semantically equivalent to This type of redirection instructs the shell to read input from the current source until a line containing only delimiter (with no trailing blanks) is seen. All of the lines read up to that point are then used as the standard input for a command. The format of here-documents is: No parameter expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion, or pathname expansion is performed on word. If any characters in word are quoted, the delimiter is the result of quote removal on word, and the lines in the here-document are not expanded. If word is unquoted, all lines of the here-document are subjected to parameter expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion. In the latter case, the character sequence   is ignored, and   must be used to quote the characters  ,  , and  . If the redirection operator is  , then all leading tab characters are stripped from input lines and the line containing delimiter. This allows here-documents within shell scripts to be indented in a natural fashion. A variant of here documents, the format is: The word is expanded and supplied to the command on its standard input. The redirection operator is used to duplicate input file descriptors. If   expands to one or more digits, the file descriptor denoted by   is made to be a copy of that file descriptor. If the digits in word do not specify a file descriptor open for input, a redirection error occurs. If   evaluates to  , file descriptor   is closed. If   is not specified, the standard input (file descriptor 0) is used. The operator is used similarly to duplicate output file descriptors. If   is not specified, the standard output (file descriptor 1) is used. If the digits in   do not specify a file descriptor open for output, a redirection error occurs. As a special case, if   is omitted, and word does not expand to one or more digits, the standard output and standard error are redirected as described previously. The redirection operator moves the file descriptor   to file descriptor  , or the standard input (file descriptor 0) if   is not specified. The   is closed after being duplicated to  . Similarly, the redirection operator moves the file descriptor digit to file descriptor  , or the standard output (file descriptor 1) if   is not specified. The redirection operator causes the file whose name is the expansion of   to be opened for both reading and writing on file descriptor  , or on file descriptor 0 if   is not specified. If the file does not exist, it is created.  allow a string to be substituted for a word when it is used as the first word of a simple command. The shell maintains a list of aliases that may be set and unset with the   and   builtin commands (see the section " " for details). The first word of each simple command, if unquoted, is checked to see if it has an alias. If so, that word is replaced by the text of the alias. The characters  ,  ,  , and   and any of the shell metacharacters or quoting characters listed above may not appear in an alias name. The replacement text may contain any valid shell input, including shell metacharacters. The first word of the replacement text is tested for aliases, but a word that is identical to an alias being expanded is not expanded a second time. This means that one may alias   to  , for instance, and bash does not try to recursively expand the replacement text. If the last character of the alias value is a blank, then the next command word following the alias is also checked for alias expansion. Aliases are created and listed with the   command, and removed with the   command. There is no mechanism for using arguments in the replacement text. If arguments are needed, a shell function should be used (see the section " " below). Aliases are not expanded when the shell is not interactive, unless the   shell option is set using   (see the description of   under the section " " below). The rules concerning the definition and use of aliases are somewhat confusing. Bash always reads at least one complete line of input before executing any of the commands on that line. Aliases are expanded when a command is read, not when it is executed. Therefore, an alias definition appearing on the same line as another command does not take effect until the next line of input is read. The commands following the alias definition on that line are not affected by the new alias. This behavior is also an issue when functions are executed. Aliases are expanded when a function definition is read, not when the function is executed, because a function definition is itself a compound command. As a consequence, aliases defined in a function are not available until after that function is executed. To be safe, always put alias definitions on a separate line, and do not use alias in compound commands. For almost every purpose, aliases are superseded by shell functions. A  , defined as described above under the section " ", stores a series of commands for later execution. When the name of a shell function is used as a simple command name, the list of commands associated with that function name is executed. Functions are executed in the context of the current shell; no new process is created to interpret them (contrast this with the execution of a shell script). When a function is executed, the arguments to the function become the positional parameters during its execution. The special parameter   is updated to reflect the change. Special parameter 0 is unchanged. The first element of the   variable is set to the name of the function while the function is executing. All other aspects of the shell execution environment are identical between a function and its caller with these exceptions: the   and   traps (see the description of the   builtin under the section " " below) are not inherited unless the function has been given the   attribute (see the description of the   builtin below) or the   shell option has been enabled with the   builtin (in which case all functions inherit the   and   traps), and the   trap is not inherited unless the   shell option has been enabled. Variables local to the function may be declared with the   builtin command. Ordinarily, variables and their values are shared between the function and its caller. The   variable, if set to a numeric value greater than 0, defines a maximum function nesting level. Function invocations that exceed the limit cause the entire command to abort. If the builtin command   is executed in a function, the function completes and execution resumes with the next command after the function call. Any command associated with the   trap is executed before execution resumes. When a function completes, the values of the positional parameters and the special parameter   are restored to the values they had before the function's execution. Function names and definitions may be listed with the   option to the   or   builtin commands. The   option to   or   will list the function names only (and optionally the source file and line number, if the   shell option is enabled). Functions may be exported so that subshells automatically have them defined with the   option to the   builtin. A function definition may be deleted using the   option to the   builtin. Note that shell functions and variables with the same name may result in multiple identically-named entries in the environment passed to the shell's children. Care should be taken in cases where this may cause a problem. Functions may be recursive. The   variable may be used to limit the depth of the function call stack and restrict the number of function invocations. By default, no limit is imposed on the number of recursive calls. The shell allows   to be  , under certain circumstances (see the   and   builtin commands and the section " "). Evaluation is done in fixed-width integers with no check for overflow, though division by 0 is trapped and flagged as an error. The operators and their precedence, associativity, and values are the same as in the  . The following list of operators is grouped into levels of equal-precedence operators. The levels are listed in order of decreasing precedence. ,  variable post-increment and post-decrement ,  variable pre-increment and pre-decrement ,  unary minus and plus ,  logical and bitwise negation exponentiation ,  ,  multiplication, division, remainder ,  addition, subtraction ,  left and right bitwise shifts ,  ,  ,  comparison ,  equality and inequality bitwise AND bitwise exclusive OR bitwise OR logical AND logical OR conditional operator ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  assignment   comma Shell variables are allowed as operands; parameter expansion is performed before the expression is evaluated. Within an expression, shell variables may also be referenced by name without using the parameter expansion syntax. A shell variable that is null or unset evaluates to 0 when referenced by name without using the parameter expansion syntax. The value of a variable is evaluated as an arithmetic expression when it is referenced, or when a variable which has been given the integer attribute using   is assigned a value. A null value evaluates to 0. A shell variable need not have its integer attribute turned on to be used in an expression. Constants with a leading 0 are interpreted as octal numbers. A leading   or   denotes hexadecimal. Otherwise, numbers take the form  , where the optional base is a decimal number between 2 and 64 representing the arithmetic base, and   is a number in that base. If   is omitted, then base 10 is used. The digits greater than 9 are represented by the lowercase letters, the uppercase letters,  , and  , in that order. If base is less than or equal to 36, lowercase and uppercase letters may be used interchangeably to represent numbers between 10 and 35. Operators are evaluated in order of precedence. Sub-expressions in parentheses are evaluated first and may override the precedence rules above. Conditional expressions are used by the   compound command and the   and   builtin commands to test file attributes and perform string and arithmetic comparisons. Expressions are formed from the following unary or binary primaries. If any file argument to one of the primaries is of the form  , then file descriptor   is checked. If the file argument to one of the primaries is one of  ,  , or  , file descriptor 0, 1, or 2, respectively, is checked. Unless otherwise specified, primaries that operate on files follow   and operate on the target of the link, rather than the link itself. When used with  , the   and   operators sort lexicographically using the current locale. The test command sorts using   ordering.   True if   exists.   True if   exists and is a block special file.   True if   exists and is a character special file.   True if   exists and is a directory.   True if   exists.   True if   exists and is a regular file.   True if   exists and is set-group-id.   True if   exists and is a symbolic link.   True if   exists and its "sticky" bit is set.   True if   exists and is a named pipe (FIFO).   True if   exists and is readable.   True if   exists and has a size greater than zero.   True if file descriptor   is open and refers to a terminal.   True if   exists and its set-user-id bit is set.   True if   exists and is writable.   True if   exists and is executable.   True if   exists and is owned by the effective group id.   True if   exists and is a symbolic link.   True if   exists and has been modified since it was last read.   True if   exists and is owned by the effective user id.   True if   exists and is a socket.     True if   and   refer to the same device and   numbers.     True if   is newer (according to modification date) than  , or if   exists and   does not.     True if   is older than  , or if   exists and   does not.   True if the shell option   is enabled. See the list of options under the description of the   option to the   builtin below.   True if the shell variable   is set (has been assigned a value).   True if the length of   is zero. ,    True if the length of   is non-zero.     ,      True if the strings are equal.   should be used with the   command for POSIX conformance.     True if the strings are not equal.     True if   sorts before   lexicographically.     True if   sorts after   lexicographically.      is one of  ,  ,  ,  ,  , or  . These arithmetic binary operators return true if   is equal to, not equal to, less than, less than or equal to, greater than, or greater than or equal to  , respectively. The   and   may be positive or negative integers. When a   is executed, the shell performs the following expansions, assignments, and redirections, from left to right. If no command name results, the variable assignments affect the current shell environment. Otherwise, the variables are added to the environment of the executed command and do not affect the current shell environment. If any of the assignments attempts to assign a value to a readonly variable, an error occurs, and the command exits with a non-zero status. If no command name results, redirections are performed, but do not affect the current shell environment. A redirection error causes the command to exit with a non-zero status. If there is a command name left after expansion, execution proceeds as described below. Otherwise, the command exits. If one of the expansions contained a command substitution, the exit status of the command is the exit status of the last command substitution performed. If there were no command substitutions, the command exits with a status of zero. After a command has been split into words, if it results in a simple command and an optional list of arguments, the following actions are taken. If the command name contains no slashes, the shell attempts to locate it. If there exists a shell function by that name, that function is invoked as described above in the section " ." If the name does not match a function, the shell searches for it in the list of shell builtins. If a match is found, that builtin is invoked. If the name is neither a shell function nor a builtin, and contains no slashes, bash searches each element of the PATH for a directory containing an executable file by that name. Bash uses a hash table to remember the full pathnames of executable files (see   under the section " " below). A full search of the directories in PATH is performed only if the command is not found in the hash table. If the search is unsuccessful, the shell searches for a defined shell function named  . If that function exists, it is invoked with the original command and the original command's arguments as its arguments, and the function's exit status becomes the exit status of the shell. If that function is not defined, the shell prints an error message and returns an exit status of 127. If the search is successful, or if the command name contains one or more slashes, the shell executes the named program in a separate execution environment. Argument 0 is set to the name given, and the remaining arguments to the command are set to the arguments given, if any. If this execution fails because the file is not in executable format, and the file is not a directory, it is assumed to be a shell script, a file containing shell commands. A subshell is spawned to execute it. This subshell reinitializes itself, so that the effect is as if a new shell had been invoked to handle the script, with the exception that the locations of commands remembered by the parent (see   below under the section " ") are retained by the child. If the program is a file beginning with  , the remainder of the first line specifies an interpreter for the program. The shell executes the specified interpreter on operating systems that do not handle this executable format themselves. The arguments to the interpreter consist of a single optional argument following the interpreter name on the first line of the program, followed by the name of the program, followed by the command arguments, if any. The shell has an  , which consists of the following: When a simple command other than a builtin or shell function is to be executed, it is invoked in a separate execution environment that consists of the following. Unless otherwise noted, the values are inherited from the shell. A command invoked in this separate environment cannot affect the shell's execution environment. Command substitution, commands grouped with parentheses, and asynchronous commands are invoked in a subshell environment that is a duplicate of the shell environment, except that traps caught by the shell are reset to the values that the shell inherited from its parent at invocation. Builtin commands that are invoked as part of a pipeline are also executed in a subshell environment. Changes made to the subshell environment cannot affect the shell's execution environment. Subshells spawned to execute command substitutions inherit the value of the   option from the parent shell. When not in posix mode, bash clears the   option in such subshells. If a command is followed by a   and job control is not active, the default standard input for the command is the empty file  . Otherwise, the invoked command inherits the file descriptors of the calling shell as modified by redirections. When a program is invoked it is given an array of strings called the  . This is a list of name-value pairs, of the form  . The shell provides several ways to manipulate the environment. On invocation, the shell scans its own environment and creates a parameter for each name found, automatically marking it for export to child processes. Executed commands inherit the environment. The   and   commands allow parameters and functions to be added to and deleted from the environment. If the value of a parameter in the environment is modified, the new value becomes part of the environment, replacing the old. The environment inherited by any executed command consists of the shell's initial environment, whose values may be modified in the shell, less any pairs removed by the unset command, plus any additions via the   and   commands. The environment for any simple command or function may be augmented temporarily by prefixing it with parameter assignments, as described above in the section " ." These assignment statements affect only the environment seen by that command. If the   option is set (see the   builtin command below), then all parameter assignments are placed in the environment for a command, not just those that precede the command name. When   invokes an external command, the variable   is set to the full file name of the command and passed to that command in its environment. The   of an executed command is the value returned by the   system call or equivalent function. Exit statuses fall between 0 and 255, though, as explained below, the shell may use values above 125 specially. Exit statuses from shell builtins and compound commands are also limited to this range. Under certain circumstances, the shell will use special values to indicate specific failure modes. For the shell's purposes, a command which exits with a zero exit status has succeeded. An exit status of zero indicates success. A non-zero exit status indicates failure. When a command terminates on a fatal signal  , bash uses the value of   as the exit status. If a command is not found, the child process created to execute it returns a status of 127. If a command is found but is not executable, the return status is 126. If a command fails because of an error during expansion or redirection, the exit status is greater than zero. Shell builtin commands return a status of 0 (true) if successful, and non-zero (false) if an error occurs while they execute. All builtins return an exit status of 2 to indicate incorrect usage. Bash itself returns the exit status of the last command executed, unless a syntax error occurs, in which case it exits with a non-zero value. See also the exit builtin command below. When bash is interactive, in the absence of any traps, it ignores   (so that kill 0 does not kill an interactive shell), and   is caught and handled (so that the wait builtin is interruptible). In all cases, bash ignores  . If job control is in effect, bash ignores  ,  , and  . Non-builtin commands run by bash have signal handlers set to the values inherited by the shell from its parent. When job control is not in effect, asynchronous commands ignore   and   in addition to these inherited handlers. Commands run as a result of command substitution ignore the keyboard-generated job control signals  ,  , and  . The shell exits by default upon receipt of a  . Before exiting, an interactive shell resends the   to all jobs, running or stopped. Stopped jobs are sent   to ensure that they receive the  . To prevent the shell from sending the signal to a particular job, it should be removed from the jobs table with the   builtin (see the section " " below) or marked to not receive   using  . If the   shell option has been set with  , bash sends a   to all jobs when an interactive login shell exits. If bash is waiting for a command to complete and receives a signal for which a trap has been set, the trap will not be executed until the command completes. When bash is waiting for an asynchronous command via the   builtin, the reception of a signal for which a trap has been set will cause the wait builtin to return immediately with an exit status greater than 128, immediately after which the trap is executed.  refers to the ability to selectively stop (suspend) the execution of processes and continue (resume) their execution at a later point. A user typically employs this facility via an interactive interface supplied jointly by the operating system  's terminal driver and bash. The shell associates a job with each pipeline. It keeps a table of currently executing jobs, which may be listed with the   command. When bash starts a job asynchronously (in the background), it prints a line that looks like: indicating that this job is job number   and that the process ID of the last process in the pipeline associated with this job is  . All of the processes in a single pipeline are members of the same job. Bash uses the job abstraction as the basis for job control. To facilitate the implementation of the user interface to job control, the operating system maintains the notion of a current terminal process group ID. Members of this process group (processes whose process group ID is equal to the current terminal process group ID) receive keyboard-generated signals such as  . These processes are said to be in the foreground. Background processes are those whose process group ID differs from the terminal's; such processes are immune to keyboard-generated signals. Only foreground processes are allowed to read from or, if the user so specifies with stty tostop, write to the terminal. Background processes which attempt to read from (write to when stty tostop is in effect) the terminal are sent a   ( ) signal by the kernel's terminal driver, which, unless caught, suspends the process. If the operating system on which bash is running supports job control, bash contains facilities to use it. Typing the suspend character (typically  ,  ) while a process is running causes that process to be stopped and returns control to bash. Typing the delayed suspend character (typically  ,  ) causes the process to be stopped when it attempts to read input from the terminal, and control to be returned to bash. The user may then manipulate the state of this job, using the   command to continue it in the background, the   command to continue it in the foreground, or the   command to kill it. A   takes effect immediately, and has the additional side effect of causing pending output and typeahead to be discarded. There are a number of ways to refer to a job in the shell. The character   introduces a job specification ( ). Job number   may be referred to as  . A job may also be referred to using a prefix of the name used to start it, or using a substring that appears in its command line. For example,   refers to a stopped   job. If a prefix matches more than one job, bash reports an error. Using  , on the other hand, refers to any job containing the string   in its command line. If the substring matches more than one job, bash reports an error. The symbols   and   refer to the shell's notion of the current job, which is the last job stopped while it was in the foreground or started in the background. The previous job may be referenced using  . If there is only a single job,   and   can both be used to refer to that job. In output pertaining to jobs (e.g., the output of the   command), the current job is always flagged with a  , and the previous job with a  . A single   (with no accompanying job specification) also refers to the current job. Naming a job can be used to bring it into the foreground:   is a synonym for "fg %1", bringing job 1 from the background into the foreground. Similarly, " " resumes job 1 in the background, equivalent to " ". The shell learns immediately whenever a job changes state. Normally, bash waits until it is about to print a prompt before reporting changes in a job's status so as to not interrupt any other output. If the   option to the   builtin command is enabled, bash reports such changes immediately. Any trap on   is executed for each child that exits. If an attempt to exit bash is made while jobs are stopped (or, if the   shell option has been enabled using the   builtin, running), the shell prints a warning message, and, if the   option is enabled, lists the jobs and their statuses. The jobs command may then be used to inspect their status. If a second attempt to exit is made without an intervening command, the shell does not print another warning, and any stopped jobs are terminated. When executing interactively, bash displays the primary prompt   when it is ready to read a command, and the secondary prompt   when it needs more input to complete a command. Bash allows these prompt strings to be customized by inserting a number of backslash-escaped special characters that are decoded as follows: an ASCII bell character (07) the date in "Weekday Month Date" format (e.g., "Tue May 26") the format is passed to   and the result is inserted into the prompt string; an empty format results in a locale-specific time representation. The braces are required. an ASCII escape character (033) the hostname up to the first '.' the hostname the number of jobs currently managed by the shell the   of the shell's terminal device name the name of the shell, the   of   (the portion following the final slash) the current time in 24-hour   format the current time in 12-hour   format the current time in 12-hour am/pm format the current time in 24-hour   format the username of the current user the version of bash (e.g., 2.00) the release of bash, version + patch level (e.g., 2.00.0) the current working directory, with   abbreviated with a tilde (uses the value of the   variable) the   of the current working directory, with   abbreviated with a tilde the history number of this command the command number of this command if the effective UID is 0, a  , otherwise a  the character corresponding to the octal number  a backslash begin a sequence of non-printing characters, which could be used to embed a terminal control sequence into the prompt. end a sequence of non-printing characters The command number and the history number are usually different: the   of a command is its position in the history list, which may include commands restored from the history file (see the section " ", below), while the   is the position in the sequence of commands executed during the current shell session. After the string is decoded, it is expanded via parameter expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion, and quote removal, subject to the value of the   shell option (see the description of the   command under " " section below). This is the library that handles reading input when using an interactive shell, unless the   option is given at shell invocation. Line editing is also used when using the   option to the   builtin. By default, the line editing commands are similar to those of  . A  -style line editing interface is also available. Line editing can be enabled at any time using the   or   options to the   builtin (see the section " " below). To turn off line editing after the shell is running, use the   or   options to the   builtin. In this section, the  -style notation is used to denote keystrokes. Control keys are denoted by  -key, e.g.,   means  . Similarly, meta keys are denoted by  -key, so   means  . On keyboards without a meta key,   means  , i.e., press the   key then the   key. This makes   the meta prefix. The combination   means  , or press the   key then hold the   key while pressing the   key.  commands may be given numeric arguments, which normally act as a repeat count. Sometimes, however, it is the sign of the argument that is significant. Passing a negative argument to a command that acts in the forward direction (e.g.,  ) causes that command to act in a backward direction. Commands whose behavior with arguments deviates from this are noted below. When a command is described as killing text, the text deleted is saved for possible future retrieval (yanking). The killed text is saved in a kill ring. Consecutive kills cause the text to be accumulated into one unit, which can be yanked all at once. Commands which do not kill text separate the chunks of text on the kill ring. Readline is customized by putting commands in an initialization file (the   file). The name of this file is taken from the value of the   variable. If that variable is unset, the default is  . When a program which uses the   library starts up, the initialization file is read, and the key bindings and variables are set. There are only a few basic constructs allowed in the   initialization file. Blank lines are ignored. Lines beginning with a   are comments. Lines beginning with a   indicate conditional constructs. Other lines denote key bindings and variable settings. The default key-bindings may be changed with an   file. Other programs that use this library may add their own commands and bindings. For example, placing or into the   would make   execute the   command  . The following symbolic character names are recognized:   and  . In addition to command names,   allows keys to be bound to a string that is inserted when the key is pressed (a  ). The syntax for controlling key bindings in the   file is simple. All that is required is the name of the command or the text of a macro and a key sequence to which it should be bound. The name may be specified in one of two ways: as a symbolic key name, possibly with   or   prefixes, or as a key sequence. When using the form   or macro,   is the name of a key spelled out in English. For example: In the above example,   is bound to the function universal-argument,   is bound to the function  , and   is bound to run the macro expressed on the right hand side (that is, to insert the text " " into the line). In the second form,  ,   differs from   above in that strings denoting an entire key sequence may be specified by placing the sequence within double quotes. Some   Emacs style key escapes can be used, as in the following example, but the symbolic character names are not recognized. In this example,   is again bound to the function universal-argument.   is bound to the function  , and   is bound to insert the text " ". The full set of GNU Emacs style escape sequences is control prefix meta prefix an escape character backslash literal  literal  In addition to the GNU Emacs style escape sequences, a second set of backslash escapes is available: alert (bell) backspace delete form feed newline carriage return horizontal tab vertical tab the eight-bit character whose value is the octal value   (one to three digits) the eight-bit character whose value is the hexadecimal value   (one or two hex digits) When entering the text of a  , single or double quotes must be used to indicate a macro definition. Unquoted text is assumed to be a function name. In the macro body, the backslash escapes described above are expanded. Backslash will quote any other character in the macro text, including   and  . Bash allows the current   key bindings to be displayed or modified with the   builtin command. The editing mode may be switched during interactive use by using the   option to the   builtin command (see the section " " below).  has variables that can be used to further customize its behavior. A variable may be set in the   file with a statement of the form. Except where noted,   variables can take the values   or   (without regard to case). Unrecognized variable names are ignored. When a variable value is read, empty or null values, " " (case-insensitive), and " " are equivalent to  . All other values are equivalent to  . The variables and their default values are: audible Controls what happens when readline wants to ring the terminal bell. If set to  , readline never rings the bell. If set to  , readline uses a visible bell if one is available. If set to  , readline attempts to ring the terminal's bell. On If set to  , readline attempts to bind the control characters treated specially by the kernel's terminal driver to their readline equivalents. "#" The string that is inserted when the readline insert-comment command is executed. This command is bound to   in emacs mode and to   in vi command mode. Off If set to  , readline performs filename matching and completion in a case-insensitive fashion. 0 The length in characters of the common prefix of a list of possible completions that is displayed without modification. When set to a value greater than zero, common prefixes longer than this value are replaced with an ellipsis when displaying possible completions. 100 This determines when the user is queried about viewing the number of possible completions generated by the possible-completions command. It may be set to any integer value greater than or equal to zero. If the number of possible completions is greater than or equal to the value of this variable, the user is asked whether or not he wishes to view them; otherwise they are listed on the terminal. On If set to  , readline will convert characters with the eighth bit set to an   key sequence by stripping the eighth bit and prefixing an escape character (in effect, using escape as the meta prefix). Off If set to  , readline will inhibit word completion. Completion characters will be inserted into the line as if they had been mapped to self-insert. emacs Controls whether readline begins with a set of key bindings similar to Emacs or vi.   can be set to either   or  . On When set to  , on operating systems that indicate they support it, readline echoes a character corresponding to a signal generated from the keyboard. Off When set to  , readline will try to enable the application keypad when it is called. Some systems need this to enable the arrow keys. On When set to  , readline will try to enable any meta modifier key the terminal claims to support when it is called. On many terminals, the meta key is used to send eight-bit characters. Off If set to  , tilde expansion is performed when readline attempts word completion. Off If set to  , the history code attempts to place point at the same location on each history line retrieved with   or  . 0 Set the maximum number of history entries saved in the history list. If set to zero, the number of entries in the history list is not limited. Off When set to  , makes readline use a single line for display, scrolling the input horizontally on a single screen line when it becomes longer than the screen width rather than wrapping to a new line. Off If set to  , readline will enable eight-bit input (that is, it will not strip the high bit from the characters it reads), regardless of what the terminal claims it can support. The name meta-flag is a synonym for this variable. "C-[C-J" The string of characters that should terminate an incremental search without subsequently executing the character as a command. If this variable has not been given a value, the characters   and   will terminate an incremental search. emacs Set the current readline keymap. The set of valid keymap names is  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and  .   is equivalent to  ;   is equivalent to  . The default value is  ; the value of   also affects the default keymap. On If set to  , completed directory names have a slash appended. Off If set to  , history lines that have been modified are displayed with a preceding asterisk ( ). Off If set to  , completed names that are symbolic links to directories have a slash appended (subject to the value of mark-directories). On This variable, when set to  , causes readline to match files whose names begin with a ' ' (hidden files) when performing filename completion. If set to  , the leading ' ' must be supplied by the user in the filename to be completed. Off If set to  , menu completion displays the common prefix of the list of possible completions (which may be empty) before cycling through the list. Off If set to  , readline displays characters with the eighth bit set directly rather than as a meta-prefixed escape sequence. On If set to  , readline uses an internal more-like pager to display a screenful of possible completions at a time. Off If set to  , readline displays completions with matches sorted horizontally in alphabetical order, rather than down the screen. Off If set to  , readline will undo all changes to history lines before returning when accept-line is executed. By default, history lines may be modified and retain individual undo lists across calls to readline. Off This alters the default behavior of the completion functions. If set to  , words which have more than one possible completion cause the matches to be listed immediately instead of ringing the bell. Off This alters the default behavior of the completion functions in a fashion similar to  . If set to  , words which have more than one possible completion without any possible partial completion (the possible completions don't share a common prefix) cause the matches to be listed immediately instead of ringing the bell. Off If set to  , this alters the default completion behavior when inserting a single match into the line. It's only active when performing completion in the middle of a word. If enabled, readline does not insert characters from the completion that match characters after point in the word being completed, so portions of the word following the cursor are not duplicated. Off If set to  , a character denoting a file's type as reported by   is appended to the filename when listing possible completions. Readline implements a facility similar in spirit to the conditional compilation features of the C preprocessor that allows key bindings and variable settings to be performed as the result of tests. There are four parser directives used. The   construct allows bindings to be made based on the editing mode, the terminal being used, or the application using readline. The text of the test extends to the end of the line; no characters are required to isolate it. The   form of the   directive is used to test whether readline is in   or   mode. This may be used in conjunction with the set keymap command, for instance, to set bindings in the   and   keymaps only if readline is starting out in emacs mode. The   form may be used to include terminal-specific key bindings, perhaps to bind the key sequences output by the terminal's function keys. The word on the right side of the   is tested against the both full name of the terminal and the portion of the terminal name before the first  . This allows   to match both   and  , for instance. The   construct is used to include application-specific settings. Each program using the readline library sets the application name, and an initialization file can test for a particular value. This could be used to bind key sequences to functions useful for a specific program. For instance, the following command adds a key sequence that quotes the current or previous word in bash: This command, as seen in the previous example, terminates an   command. Commands in this branch of the   directive are executed if the test fails. This directive takes a single filename as an argument and reads commands and bindings from that file. For example, the following directive would read   provides commands for searching through the command history (see section " " below) for lines containing a specified string. There are two search modes:   and   begin before the user has finished typing the search string. As each character of the search string is typed,   displays the next entry from the history matching the string typed so far. An incremental search requires only as many characters as needed to find the desired history entry. The characters present in the value of the isearch-terminators variable are used to terminate an incremental search. If that variable has not been assigned a value the   and   characters will terminate an incremental search.   will abort an incremental search and restore the original line. When the search is terminated, the history entry containing the search string becomes the current line. To find other matching entries in the history list, type   or   as appropriate. This will search backward or forward in the history for the next entry matching the search string typed so far. Any other key sequence bound to a   command will terminate the search and execute that command. For instance, a   will terminate the search and accept the line, thereby executing the command from the history list.  remembers the last incremental search string. If two  s are typed without any intervening characters defining a new search string, any remembered search string is used. Non-incremental searches read the entire search string before starting to search for matching history lines. The search string may be typed by the user or be part of the contents of the current line. The following is a list of the names of the commands and the default key sequences to which they are bound. Command names without an accompanying key sequence are unbound by default. In the following descriptions,   refers to the current cursor position, and   refers to a cursor position saved by the   command. The text between the   and   is referred to as the  . beginning-of-line C-a Move to the start of the current line. end-of-line C-e Move to the end of the line. forward-char C-f Move forward a character. backward-char C-b Move back a character. forward-word M-f Move forward to the end of the next word. Words are composed of alphanumeric characters (letters and digits). backward-word M-b Move back to the start of the current or previous word. Words are composed of alphanumeric characters (letters and digits). shell-forward-word Move forward to the end of the next word. Words are delimited by non-quoted shell metacharacters. shell-backward-word Move back to the start of the current or previous word. Words are delimited by non-quoted shell metacharacters. clear-screen C-l Clear the screen leaving the current line at the top of the screen. With an argument, refresh the current line without clearing the screen. redraw-current-line Refresh the current line. accept-line Newline, Return Accept the line regardless of where the cursor is. If this line is non-empty, add it to the history list according to the state of the   variable. If the line is a modified history line, then restore the history line to its original state. previous-history C-p Fetch the previous command from the history list, moving back in the list. next-history C-n Fetch the next command from the history list, moving forward in the list. beginning-of-history M-< Move to the first line in the history. end-of-history M-> Move to the end of the input history, i.e., the line currently being entered. reverse-search-history C-r Search backward starting at the current line and moving 'up' through the history as necessary. This is an incremental search. forward-search-history C-s Search forward starting at the current line and moving 'down' through the history as necessary. This is an incremental search. non-incremental-reverse-search-history M-p Search backward through the history starting at the current line using a non- incremental search for a string supplied by the user. non-incremental-forward-search-history M-n Search forward through the history using a non-incremental search for a string supplied by the user. history-search-forward Search forward through the history for the string of characters between the start of the current line and the point. This is a non-incremental search. history-search-backward Search backward through the history for the string of characters between the start of the current line and the point. This is a non-incremental search. yank-nth-arg M-C-y Insert the first argument to the previous command (usually the second word on the previous line) at point. With an argument  , insert the  th word from the previous command (the words in the previous command begin with word 0). A negative argument inserts the nth word from the end of the previous command. Once the argument   is computed, the argument is extracted as if the " " history expansion had been specified. yank-last-arg M-., M-_ Insert the last argument to the previous command (the last word of the previous history entry). With a numeric argument, behave exactly like  . Successive calls to   move back through the history list, inserting the last word (or the word specified by the argument to the first call) of each line in turn. Any numeric argument supplied to these successive calls determines the direction to move through the history. A negative argument switches the direction through the history (back or forward). The history expansion facilities are used to extract the last argument, as if the " " history expansion had been specified. shell-expand-line M-C-e Expand the line as the shell does. This performs alias and history expansion as well as all of the shell word expansions. See the section " " below for a description of history expansion. history-expand-line M-^ Perform history expansion on the current line. See the section " " below for a description of history expansion. magic-space Perform history expansion on the current line and insert a space. See the section " " below for a description of history expansion. alias-expand-line Perform alias expansion on the current line. See the section " " above for a description of alias expansion. history-and-alias-expand-line Perform history and alias expansion on the current line. insert-last-argument M-., M-_ A synonym for  . operate-and-get-next C-o Accept the current line for execution and fetch the next line relative to the current line from the history for editing. Any argument is ignored. edit-and-execute-command C-xC-e Invoke an editor on the current command line, and execute the result as shell commands. Bash attempts to invoke  ,  , and   as the editor, in that order. delete-char C-d Delete the character at  . If   is at the beginning of the line, there are no characters in the line, and the last character typed was not bound to  , then return EOF. backward-delete-char Rubout Delete the character behind the cursor. When given a numeric argument, save the deleted text on the kill ring. forward-backward-delete-char Delete the character under the cursor, unless the cursor is at the end of the line, in which case the character behind the cursor is deleted. quoted-insert C-q, C-v Add the next character typed to the line verbatim. This is how to insert characters like C-q, for example. tab-insert C-v TAB Insert a tab character. self-insert a, b, A, 1, !, ... Insert the character typed. transpose-chars C-t Drag the character before   forward over the character at  , moving   forward as well. If   is at the end of the line, then this transposes the two characters before  . Negative arguments have no effect. transpose-words M-t Drag the word before   past the word after  , moving   over that word as well. If   is at the end of the line, this transposes the last two words on the line. upcase-word M-u Uppercase the current (or following) word. With a negative argument, uppercase the previous word, but do not move  . downcase-word M-l Lowercase the current (or following) word. With a negative argument, lowercase the previous word, but do not move  . capitalize-word M-c Capitalize the current (or following) word. With a negative argument, capitalize the previous word, but do not move  . overwrite-mode Toggle overwrite mode. With an explicit positive numeric argument, switches to overwrite mode. With an explicit non-positive numeric argument, switches to insert mode. This command affects only emacs mode; vi mode does overwrite differently. Each call to readline() starts in insert mode. In overwrite mode, characters bound to self-insert replace the text at point rather than pushing the text to the right. Characters bound to   replace the character before   with a space. By default, this command is unbound. kill-line C-k Kill the text from   to the end of the line. backward-kill-line C-x Rubout Kill backward to the beginning of the line. unix-line-discard C-u Kill backward from   to the beginning of the line. The killed text is saved on the kill-ring. kill-whole-line Kill all characters on the current line, no matter where point is. kill-word M-d Kill from point to the end of the current word, or if between words, to the end of the next word. Word boundaries are the same as those used by forward-word. backward-kill-word M-Rubout Kill the word behind  . Word boundaries are the same as those used by backward-word. shell-kill-word M-d Kill from   to the end of the current word, or if between words, to the end of the next word. Word boundaries are the same as those used by  . shell-backward-kill-word M-Rubout Kill the word behind  . Word boundaries are the same as those used by  . unix-word-rubout C-w Kill the word behind  , using white space as a word boundary. The killed text is saved on the kill-ring. unix-filename-rubout Kill the word behind  , using white space and the slash character as the word boundaries. The killed text is saved on the kill-ring. delete-horizontal-space M-\ Delete all spaces and tabs around  . kill-region Kill the text in the current region. copy-region-as-kill Copy the text in the region to the kill buffer. copy-backward-word Copy the word before   to the kill buffer. The word boundaries are the same as  . copy-forward-word Copy the word following   to the kill buffer. The word boundaries are the same as  . yank C-y Yank the top of the kill ring into the buffer at  . yank-pop M-y Rotate the kill ring, and yank the new top. Only works following   or  . digit-argument M-0, M-1, ..., M-- Add this digit to the argument already accumulating, or start a new argument. M-- starts a negative argument. universal-argument This is another way to specify an argument. If this command is followed by one or more digits, optionally with a leading minus sign, those digits define the argument. If the command is followed by digits, executing   again ends the numeric argument, but is otherwise ignored. As a special case, if this command is immediately followed by a character that is neither a digit or minus sign, the argument count for the next command is multiplied by four. The argument count is initially one, so executing this function the first time makes the argument count four, a second time makes the argument count sixteen, and so on. complete TAB Attempt to perform completion on the text before  . Bash attempts completion treating the text as a variable (if the text begins with  ), username (if the text begins with  ), hostname (if the text begins with  ), or command (including aliases and functions) in turn. If none of these produces a match, filename completion is attempted. possible-completions M-? List the possible completions of the text before point. insert-completions M-* Insert all completions of the text before   that would have been generated by possible-completions. menu-complete Similar to  , but replaces the word to be completed with a single match from the list of possible completions. Repeated execution of   steps through the list of possible completions, inserting each match in turn. At the end of the list of completions, the bell is rung (subject to the setting of bell-style) and the original text is restored. An argument of   moves   positions forward in the list of matches; a negative argument may be used to move backward through the list. This command is intended to be bound to  , but is unbound by default. menu-complete-backward Identical to  , but moves backward through the list of possible completions, as if   had been given a negative argument. This command is unbound by default. delete-char-or-list Deletes the character under the cursor if not at the beginning or end of the line (like  ). If at the end of the line, behaves identically to  . This command is unbound by default. complete-filename M-/ Attempt filename completion on the text before point. possible-filename-completions C-x / List the possible completions of the text before  , treating it as a filename. complete-username M-~ Attempt completion on the text before  , treating it as a username. possible-username-completions C-x ~ List the possible completions of the text before  , treating it as a username. complete-variable M-$ Attempt completion on the text before  , treating it as a shell variable. possible-variable-completions C-x $ List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it as a shell variable. complete-hostname Attempt completion on the text before  , treating it as a hostname. possible-hostname-completions C-x @ List the possible completions of the text before  , treating it as a hostname. complete-command M-! Attempt completion on the text before  , treating it as a command name. Command completion attempts to match the text against aliases, reserved words, shell functions, shell builtins, and finally executable filenames, in that order. possible-command-completions C-x ! List the possible completions of the text before  , treating it as a command name. dynamic-complete-history M-TAB Attempt completion on the text before  , comparing the text against lines from the history list for possible completion matches. dabbrev-expand Attempt menu completion on the text before point, comparing the text against lines from the history list for possible completion matches. complete-into-braces M-{ Perform filename completion and insert the list of possible completions enclosed within braces so the list is available to the shell (see the section " " above). start-kbd-macro C-x ( Begin saving the characters typed into the current keyboard macro. end-kbd-macro C-x ) Stop saving the characters typed into the current keyboard macro and store the definition. call-last-kbd-macro C-x e Re-execute the last keyboard macro defined, by making the characters in the macro appear as if typed at the keyboard. re-read-init-file C-x C-r Read in the contents of the   file, and incorporate any bindings or variable assignments found there. abort C-g Abort the current editing command and ring the terminal's bell (subject to the setting of bell-style). do-uppercase-version M-a, M-b, M-x, ... If the metafied character   is lowercase, run the command that is bound to the corresponding uppercase character. prefix-meta ESC Metafy the next character typed.   is equivalent to  . undo C-_, C-x C-u Incremental undo, separately remembered for each line. revert-line M-r Undo all changes made to this line. This is like executing the   command enough times to return the line to its initial state. tilde-expand M-& Perform tilde expansion on the current word. set-mark , M-<space> Set the mark to the point. If a numeric argument is supplied, the mark is set to that position. exchange-point-and-mark C-x C-x Swap the point with the mark. The current cursor position is set to the saved position, and the old cursor position is saved as the mark. character-search (C-] A character is read and   is moved to the next occurrence of that character. A negative count searches for previous occurrences. character-search-backward M-C-] A character is read and   is moved to the previous occurrence of that character. A negative count searches for subsequent occurrences. skip-csi-sequence Read enough characters to consume a multi-key sequence such as those defined for keys like   and  . Such sequences begin with a Control Sequence Indicator (CSI), usually  . If this sequence is bound to " ", keys producing such sequences will have no effect unless explicitly bound to a readline command, instead of inserting stray characters into the editing buffer. This is unbound by default, but usually bound to  . insert-comment M-# Without a numeric argument, the value of the readline comment-begin variable is inserted at the beginning of the current line. If a numeric argument is supplied, this command acts as a toggle: if the characters at the beginning of the line do not match the value of  , the value is inserted, otherwise the characters in   are deleted from the beginning of the line. In either case, the line is accepted as if a newline had been typed. The default value of   causes this command to make the current line a shell comment. If a numeric argument causes the comment character to be removed, the line will be executed by the shell. glob-complete-word M-g The word before   is treated as a pattern for pathname expansion, with an asterisk implicitly appended. This pattern is used to generate a list of matching file names for possible completions. glob-expand-word C-x * The word before   is treated as a pattern for pathname expansion, and the list of matching file names is inserted, replacing the word. If a numeric argument is supplied, an asterisk is appended before pathname expansion. glob-list-expansions C-x g The list of expansions that would have been generated by   is displayed, and the line is redrawn. If a numeric argument is supplied, an asterisk is appended before pathname expansion. dump-functions Print all of the functions and their key bindings to the readline output stream. If a numeric argument is supplied, the output is formatted in such a way that it can be made part of an   file. dump-variables Print all of the  -able readline variables and their values to the readline output stream. If a numeric argument is supplied, the output is formatted in such a way that it can be made part of an   file. dump-macros Print all of the readline key sequences bound to macros and the strings they output. If a numeric argument is supplied, the output is formatted in such a way that it can be made part of an   file. display-shell-version C-x C-v Display version information about the current instance of bash. When word completion is attempted for an argument to a command for which a completion specification (a  ) has been defined using the   builtin (see the section " " below), the programmable completion facilities are invoked. First, the command name is identified. If the command word is the empty string (completion attempted at the beginning of an empty line), any   defined with the   option to complete is used. If a   has been defined for that command, the   is used to generate the list of possible completions for the word. If the command word is a full pathname, a   for the full pathname is searched for first. If no   is found for the full pathname, an attempt is made to find a   for the portion following the final slash. If those searches do not result in a  , any   defined with the   option to complete is used as the default. Once a   has been found, it is used to generate the list of matching words. If a   is not found, the default bash completion as described above under Completing is performed. First, the actions specified by the   are used. Only matches which are prefixed by the word being completed are returned. When the   or   option is used for filename or directory name completion, the shell variable   is used to filter the matches. Any completions specified by a pathname expansion pattern to the   option are generated next. The words generated by the pattern need not match the word being completed. The   shell variable is not used to filter the matches, but the   variable is used. Next, the string specified as the argument to the   option is considered. The string is first split using the characters in the   special variable as delimiters. Shell quoting is honored. Each word is then expanded using brace expansion, tilde expansion, parameter and variable expansion, command substitution, and arithmetic expansion, as described above under the section " ." The results are split using the rules described above under the section " ." The results of the expansion are prefix-matched against the word being completed, and the matching words become the possible completions. After these matches have been generated, any shell function or command specified with the   and   options is invoked. When the command or function is invoked, the  ,  ,  , and   variables are assigned values as described above under the section " ." If a shell function is being invoked, the   and   variables are also set. When the function or command is invoked, the first argument is the name of the command whose arguments are being completed, the second argument is the word being completed, and the third argument is the word preceding the word being completed on the current command line. No filtering of the generated completions against the word being completed is performed; the function or command has complete freedom in generating the matches. Any function specified with   is invoked first. The function may use any of the shell facilities, including the   builtin described below, to generate the matches. It must put the possible completions in the   array variable. Next, any command specified with the   option is invoked in an environment equivalent to command substitution. It should print a list of completions, one per line, to the standard output. Backslash may be used to escape a newline, if necessary. After all of the possible completions are generated, any filter specified with the   option is applied to the list. The filter is a pattern as used for pathname expansion; a & in the pattern is replaced with the text of the word being completed. A literal   may be escaped with a backslash; the backslash is removed before attempting a match. Any completion that matches the pattern will be removed from the list. A leading   negates the pattern; in this case any completion not matching the pattern will be removed. Finally, any prefix and suffix specified with the   and   options are added to each member of the completion list, and the result is returned to the readline completion code as the list of possible completions. If the previously-applied actions do not generate any matches, and the   option was supplied to complete when the   was defined, directory name completion is attempted. If the   option was supplied to complete when the   was defined, directory name completion is attempted and any matches are added to the results of the other actions. By default, if a   is found, whatever it generates is returned to the completion code as the full set of possible completions. The default bash completions are not attempted, and the readline default of filename completion is disabled. If the     option was supplied to complete when the   was defined, the bash default completions are attempted if the   generates no matches. If the   default option was supplied to complete when the   was defined, readline's default completion will be performed if the   (and, if attempted, the default bash completions) generate no matches. When a   indicates that directory name completion is desired, the programmable completion functions force readline to append a slash to completed names which are symbolic links to directories, subject to the value of the mark-directories readline variable, regardless of the setting of the   readline variable. There is some support for dynamically modifying completions. This is most useful when used in combination with a default completion specified with  . It's possible for shell functions executed as completion handlers to indicate that completion should be retried by returning an exit status of 124. If a shell function returns 124, and changes the   associated with the command on which completion is being attempted (supplied as the first argument when the function is executed), programmable completion restarts from the beginning, with an attempt to find a new   for that command. This allows a set of completions to be built dynamically as completion is attempted, rather than being loaded all at once. For instance, assuming that there is a library of  , each kept in a file corresponding to the name of the command, the following default completion function would load completions dynamically: When the   history option to the   builtin is enabled, the shell provides access to the command history, the list of commands previously typed. The value of the   variable is used as the number of commands to save in a history list. The text of the last   commands (default 500) is saved. The shell stores each command in the history list prior to parameter and variable expansion (see the section " " above) but after history expansion is performed, subject to the values of the shell variables   and  . On startup, the history is initialized from the file named by the variable   (default  ). The file named by the value of   is truncated, if necessary, to contain no more than the number of lines specified by the value of  . When the history file is read, lines beginning with the history comment character followed immediately by a digit are interpreted as timestamps for the preceding history line. These timestamps are optionally displayed depending on the value of the   variable. When an interactive shell exits, the last   lines are copied from the history list to  . If the   shell option is enabled (see the description of   under the section " " below), the lines are appended to the history file, otherwise the history file is overwritten. If   is unset, or if the history file is unwritable, the history is not saved. If the   variable is set, time stamps are written to the history file, marked with the history comment character, so they may be preserved across shell sessions. This uses the history comment character to distinguish timestamps from other history lines. After saving the history, the history file is truncated to contain no more than   lines. If   is not set, no truncation is performed. The builtin command   (see the " " section below) may be used to list or edit and re-execute a portion of the history list. The   builtin may be used to display or modify the history list and manipulate the history file. When using command-line editing, search commands are available in each editing mode that provide access to the history list. The shell allows control over which commands are saved on the history list. The   and   variables may be set to cause the shell to save only a subset of the commands entered. The   shell option, if enabled, causes the shell to attempt to save each line of a multi-line command in the same history entry, adding semicolons where necessary to preserve syntactic correctness. The   shell option causes the shell to save the command with embedded newlines instead of semicolons. See the description of the   builtin below under the section " " for information on  ting and  ting shell options. The shell supports a history expansion feature that is similar to the history expansion in  . This section describes what syntax features are available. This feature is enabled by default for interactive shells, and can be disabled using the   option to the   builtin command (see the section " " below). Non-interactive shells do not perform history expansion by default. History expansions introduce words from the history list into the input stream, making it easy to repeat commands, insert the arguments to a previous command into the current input line, or fix errors in previous commands quickly. History expansion is performed immediately after a complete line is read, before the shell breaks it into words. It takes place in two parts. The first is to determine which line from the history list to use during substitution. The second is to select portions of that line for inclusion into the current one. The line selected from the history is the event, and the portions of that line that are acted upon are words. Various modifiers are available to manipulate the selected words. The line is broken into words in the same fashion as when reading input, so that several metacharacter-separated words surrounded by quotes are considered one word. History expansions are introduced by the appearance of the history expansion character, which is   by default. Only backslash ( ) and single quotes can quote the history expansion character. Several characters inhibit history expansion if found immediately following the history expansion character, even if it is unquoted:  ,  ,  ,  , and  . If the   shell option is enabled,   will also inhibit expansion. Several shell options settable with the   builtin may be used to tailor the behavior of history expansion. If the   shell option is enabled (see the description of the   builtin below), and readline is being used, history substitutions are not immediately passed to the shell parser. Instead, the expanded line is reloaded into the readline editing buffer for further modification. If readline is being used, and the   shell option is enabled, a failed history substitution will be reloaded into the readline editing buffer for correction. The   option to the history builtin command may be used to see what a history expansion will do before using it. The   option to the history builtin may be used to add commands to the end of the history list without actually executing them, so that they are available for subsequent recall. The shell allows control of the various characters used by the history expansion mechanism (see the description of   above under the section " "). The shell uses the history comment character to mark history timestamps when writing the history file. An event designator is a reference to a command line entry in the history list. Unless the reference is absolute, events are relative to the current position in the history list. Start a history substitution, except when followed by a  ,  ,  ,   or   (when the   shell option is enabled using the   builtin). Refer to command line  . Refer to the current command minus  . Refer to the previous command. This is a synonym for ' '. Refer to the most recent command preceding the current position in the history list starting with string. Refer to the most recent command preceding the current position in the history list containing string. The trailing   may be omitted if string is followed immediately by a newline. Quick substitution. Repeat the previous command, replacing   with  . Equivalent to " " (see Modifiers below). The entire command line typed so far.  are used to select desired words from the event. A   separates the event specification from the word designator. It may be omitted if the word designator begins with a  ,  ,  ,  , or  . Words are numbered from the beginning of the line, with the first word being denoted by 0 (zero). Words are inserted into the current line separated by single spaces. The zeroth word. For the shell, this is the command word. The  th word. The first argument. That is, word  . The last argument. The word matched by the most recent ' ' search. A range of words; ' ' abbreviates ' '. All of the words but the zeroth. This is a synonym for ' '. It is not an error to use   if there is just one word in the event; the empty string is returned in that case. Abbreviates  . Abbreviates   like  , but omits the last word. If a word designator is supplied without an event specification, the previous command is used as the event. After the optional word designator, there may appear a sequence of one or more of the following  , each preceded by a ' '. Remove a trailing file name component, leaving only the head. Remove all leading file name components, leaving the tail. Remove a trailing suffix of the form  , leaving the basename. Remove all but the trailing suffix. Print the new command but do not execute it. Quote the substituted words, escaping further substitutions. Quote the substituted words as with  , but break into words at blanks and newlines. Substitute   for the first occurrence of   in the event line. Any delimiter can be used in place of  . The final delimiter is optional if it is the last character of the event line. The delimiter may be quoted in   and   with a single backslash. If   appears in  , it is replaced by  . A single backslash will quote the  . If   is null, it is set to the last   substituted, or, if no previous history substitutions took place, the last string in a   search. Repeat the previous substitution. Cause changes to be applied over the entire event line. This is used in conjunction with ' ' (e.g., ' ') or ' '. If used with ' ', any delimiter can be used in place of  , and the final delimiter is optional if it is the last character of the event line. An   may be used as a synonym for  . Apply the following ' ' modifier once to each word in the event line. Unless otherwise noted, each builtin command documented in this section as accepting options preceded by   accepts   to signify the end of the options. The  ,  ,  , and   builtins do not accept options and do not treat   specially. The  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and   builtins accept and process arguments beginning with   without requiring  . Other builtins that accept arguments but are not specified as accepting options interpret arguments beginning with   as invalid options and require   to prevent this interpretation.  [ ] No effect; the command does nothing beyond expanding arguments and performing any specified redirections. A zero exit code is returned.    [ ]    [ ] Read and execute commands from   in the current shell environment and return the exit status of the last command executed from  . If   does not contain a slash, file names in   are used to find the directory containing  . The file searched for in   need not be executable. When bash is not in posix mode, the current directory is searched if no file is found in  . If the   option to the   builtin command is turned off, the   is not searched. If any arguments are supplied, they become the positional parameters when filename is executed. Otherwise the positional parameters are unchanged. The return status is the status of the last command exited within the script (0 if no commands are executed), and   if   is not found or cannot be read.  [-p] [ [= ] ...]  with no arguments or with the   option prints the list of aliases in the form alias   on standard output. When arguments are supplied, an alias is defined for each name whose value is given. A trailing space in value causes the next word to be checked for alias substitution when the alias is expanded. For each name in the argument list for which no value is supplied, the name and value of the alias is printed. Alias returns   unless a name is given for which no alias has been defined.  [  ...] Resume each suspended job   in the background, as if it had been started with  . If   is not present, the shell's notion of the current job is used.   returns 0 unless run when job control is disabled or, when run with job control enabled, any specified   was not found or was started without job control.  [   ] [ ]  [   ] [   ] [   ] [   ]  [   ]     [   ]     [   ]    Display current readline key and function bindings, bind a key sequence to a readline function or macro, or set a readline variable. Each non-option argument is a command as it would appear in  , but each binding or command must be passed as a separate argument; e.g., ' '. Options, if supplied, have the following meanings:   Use   as the keymap to be affected by the subsequent bindings. Acceptable   names are  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and  .   is equivalent to  ;   is equivalent to  . List the names of all readline functions. Display readline function names and bindings in such a way that they can be re-read. List current readline function names and bindings. Display readline key sequences bound to macros and the strings they output in such a way that they can be re-read. Display readline key sequences bound to macros and the strings they output. Display readline variable names and values in such a way that they can be re-read. List current readline variable names and values.   Read key bindings from  .   Query about which keys invoke the named function.   Unbind all keys bound to the named function.   Remove any current binding for  .   Cause shell-command to be executed whenever   is entered. When   is executed, the shell sets the   variable to the contents of the readline line buffer and the   variable to the current location of the insertion point. If the executed command changes the value of   or  , those new values will be reflected in the editing state. The return value is 0 unless an unrecognized option is given or an error occurred.  [ ] Exit from within a  ,  ,  , or   loop. If   is specified, break   levels.   must be  1. If   is greater than the number of enclosing loops, all enclosing loops are exited. The return value is 0 unless   is not greater than or equal to 1.    [ ] Execute the specified shell builtin, passing it arguments, and return its exit status. This is useful when defining a function whose name is the same as a shell builtin, retaining the functionality of the builtin within the function. The   builtin is commonly redefined this way. The return status is   if shell-builtin is not a shell builtin command.  [ ] Returns the context of any active subroutine call (a shell function or a script executed with the   or   builtins). Without  , caller displays the line number and source filename of the current subroutine call. If a non-negative integer is supplied as  ,   displays the line number, subroutine name, and source file corresponding to that position in the current execution call stack. This extra information may be used, for example, to print a stack trace. The current frame is frame 0. The return value is 0 unless the shell is not executing a subroutine call or   does not correspond to a valid position in the call stack.  [ |[  [ ]]] [ ] Change the current directory to  . The variable   is the default dir. The variable   defines the search path for the directory containing  . Alternative directory names in   are separated by a colon ( ). A null directory name in   is the same as the current directory, i.e., " ". If   begins with a slash ( ), then   is not used. The   option says to use the physical directory structure instead of following symbolic links (see also the   option to the   builtin command); the   option forces symbolic links to be followed. If the   option is supplied with  , and the current working directory cannot be successfully determined after a successful directory change,   will return an unsuccessful status. An argument of   is equivalent to  . If a non-empty directory name from   is used, or if   is the first argument, and the directory change is successful, the absolute pathname of the new working directory is written to the standard output. The return value is true if the directory was successfully changed; false otherwise.  [ ]  [  ...] Run   with   suppressing the normal shell function lookup. Only builtin commands or commands found in the   are executed. If the   option is given, the search for command is performed using a default value for   that is guaranteed to find all of the standard utilities. If either the   or   option is supplied, a description of command is printed. The   option causes a single word indicating the command or file name used to invoke command to be displayed; the   option produces a more verbose description. If the   or   option is supplied, the exit status is 0 if command was found, and 1 if not. If neither option is supplied and an error occurred or command cannot be found, the exit status is 127. Otherwise, the exit status of the command builtin is the exit status of command.  [ ] [ ] Generate possible completion matches for   according to the options, which may be any option accepted by the   builtin with the exception of   and  , and write the matches to the standard output. When using the   or   options, the various shell variables set by the programmable completion facilities, while available, will not have useful values. The matches will be generated in the same way as if the programmable completion code had generated them directly from a completion specification with the same flags. If word is specified, only those completions matching word will be displayed. The return value is true unless an invalid option is supplied, or no matches were generated.  [ ] [   ] [ ] [   ] [   ] [   ] [   ] [   ] [   ] [   ] [   ]   [  ...]    [ ] [  ...] Specify how arguments to each   should be completed. If the   option is supplied, or if no options are supplied, existing completion specifications are printed in a way that allows them to be reused as input. The   option removes a completion specification for each  , or, if no  s are supplied, all completion specifications. The   option indicates that the remaining options and actions should apply to the "default" command completion; that is, completion attempted on a command for which no completion has previously been defined. The   option indicates that the remaining options and actions should apply to "empty" command completion; that is, completion attempted on a blank line. The process of applying these completion specifications when word completion is attempted is described above under the section " ." Other options, if specified, have the following meanings. The arguments to the  ,  , and   options (and, if necessary, the   and   options) should be quoted to protect them from expansion before the   builtin is invoked.   The   controls several aspects of the compspec's behavior beyond the simple generation of completions. The   may be one of: : Perform the rest of the default bash completions if the compspec generates no matches. : Use readline's default filename completion if the compspec generates no matches. : Perform directory name completion if the compspec generates no matches. : Tell readline that the compspec generates filenames, so it can perform any filename-specific processing (like adding a slash to directory names, quoting special characters, or suppressing trailing spaces). Intended to be used with shell functions. : Tell readline not to append a space (the default) to words completed at the end of the line. : After any matches defined by the compspec are generated, directory name completion is attempted and any matches are added to the results of the other actions.   The   may be one of the following to generate a list of possible completions: : Alias names. May also be specified as  . : Array variable names. : Readline key binding names. : Names of shell builtin commands. May also be specified as  . : Command names. May also be specified as  . : Directory names. May also be specified as  . : Names of disabled shell builtins. : Names of enabled shell builtins. : Names of exported shell variables. May also be specified as  . : File names. May also be specified as  . : Names of shell functions. : Group names. May also be specified as  . : Help topics as accepted by the help builtin. : Hostnames, as taken from the file specified by the HOSTFILE shell variable. : Job names, if job control is active. May also be specified as  . : Shell reserved words. May also be specified as  . : Names of running jobs, if job control is active. : Service names. May also be specified as  . : Valid arguments for the   option to the set builtin. : Shell option names as accepted by the   builtin. : Signal names. : Names of stopped jobs, if job control is active. : User names. May also be specified as  . : Names of all shell variables. May also be specified as  .    is executed in a subshell environment, and its output is used as the possible completions.   The shell function   is executed in the current shell environment. When it finishes, the possible completions are retrieved from the value of the   array variable.   The pathname expansion pattern   is expanded to generate the possible completions.    is added at the beginning of each possible completion after all other options have been applied.    is appended to each possible completion after all other options have been applied.   The   is split using the characters in the IFS special variable as delimiters, and each resultant word is expanded. The possible completions are the members of the resultant list which match the word being completed.    is a pattern as used for pathname expansion. It is applied to the list of possible completions generated by the preceding options and arguments, and each completion matching   is removed from the list. A leading   in   negates the pattern; in this case, any completion not matching   is removed. The return value is true unless an invalid option is supplied, an option other than   or   is supplied without a   argument, an attempt is made to remove a completion specification for a   for which no specification exists, or an error occurs adding a completion specification.  [   ] [ ] [   ] [ ] Modify completion options for each name according to the  , or for the currently-executing completion if no   are supplied. If no   are given, display the completion options for each name or the current completion. The possible values of   are those valid for the   builtin described above. The   option indicates that the remaining options should apply to the "default" command completion; that is, completion attempted on a command for which no completion has previously been defined. The   option indicates that the remaining options should apply to "empty" command completion; that is, completion attempted on a blank line. The return value is true unless an invalid option is supplied, an attempt is made to modify the options for a name for which no completion specification exists, or an output error occurs.  [ ] Resume the next iteration of the enclosing  ,  ,  , or   loop. If   is specified, resume at the  th enclosing loop.   must be  1. If   is greater than the number of enclosing loops, the last enclosing loop (the "top-level" loop) is resumed. The return value is 0 unless   is not greater than or equal to 1.  [ ] [ ] [ [= ] ...]  [ ] [ ] [ [= ] ...] Declare variables and/or give them attributes. If no   are given then display the values of variables. The   option displays the attributes and values of each  . When   is used with   arguments, additional options are ignored. When   is supplied without   arguments, it displays the attributes and values of all variables having the attributes specified by the additional options. If no other options are supplied with  ,   displays the attributes and values of all shell variables. The   option will restrict the display to shell functions. The   option inhibits the display of function definitions; only the function name and attributes are printed. If the extdebug shell option is enabled using shopt, the source file name and line number where the function is defined are displayed as well. The   option implies  . The   option forces variables to be created or modified at the global scope, even when   is executed in a shell function. It is ignored in all other cases. The following options can be used to restrict output to variables with the specified attribute or to give variables attributes: Each name is an indexed array variable (see the section " " above). Each name is an associative array variable (see the section " " above). Use function names only. The variable is treated as an integer; arithmetic evaluation (see the section " " above) is performed when the variable is assigned a value. When the variable is assigned a value, all uppercase characters are converted to lowercase. The uppercase attribute is disabled. Make names readonly. These names cannot then be assigned values by subsequent assignment statements or unset. Give each name the trace attribute. Traced functions inherit the DEBUG and RETURN traps from the calling shell. The trace attribute has no special meaning for variables. When the variable is assigned a value, all lowercase characters are converted to uppercase. The lowercase attribute is disabled. Mark names for export to subsequent commands via the environment. Using '+' instead of '-' turns off the attribute instead, with the exceptions that   may not be used to destroy an array variable and   will not remove the readonly attribute. When used in a function, makes each name local, as with the local command, unless the   option is supplied, If a variable name is followed by  , the value of the variable is set to  . The return value is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered, an attempt is made to define a function using " ", an attempt is made to assign a value to a readonly variable, an attempt is made to assign a value to an array variable without using the compound assignment syntax (see the section " " above), one of the names is not a valid shell variable name, an attempt is made to turn off readonly status for a readonly variable, an attempt is made to turn off array status for an array variable, or an attempt is made to display a non-existent function with  .  [ ] [ ] [ ] Without options, displays the list of currently remembered directories. The default display is on a single line with directory names separated by spaces. Directories are added to the list with the   command; the   command removes entries from the list. Displays the nth entry counting from the left of the list shown by   when invoked without options, starting with zero. Displays the nth entry counting from the right of the list shown by   when invoked without options, starting with zero. Clears the directory stack by deleting all of the entries. Produces a longer listing; the default listing format uses a tilde to denote the home directory. Print the directory stack with one entry per line. Print the directory stack with one entry per line, prefixing each entry with its index in the stack. The return value is 0 unless an invalid option is supplied or   indexes beyond the end of the directory stack.  [ ] [ ] [  ...] Without options, each   is removed from the table of active jobs. If   is not present, and neither   nor   is supplied, the shell's notion of the current job is used. If the   option is given, each   is not removed from the table, but is marked so that   is not sent to the job if the shell receives a  . If no   is present, and neither the   nor the   option is supplied, the current job is used. If no   is supplied, the   option means to remove or mark all jobs; the   option without a   argument restricts operation to running jobs. The return value is 0 unless a   does not specify a valid job.  [ ] [  ...] Output the  , separated by spaces, followed by a newline. The return status is always 0. If   is specified, the trailing newline is suppressed. If the   option is given, interpretation of the following backslash-escaped characters is enabled. The   option disables the interpretation of these escape characters, even on systems where they are interpreted by default. The   shell option may be used to dynamically determine whether or not   expands these escape characters by default.   does not interpret   to mean the end of options.   interprets the following escape sequences: : alert (bell) : backspace : suppress further output ,  : an escape character : form feed : new line : carriage return : horizontal tab : vertical tab : backslash : the eight-bit character whose value is the octal value nnn (zero to three octal digits) : the eight-bit character whose value is the hexadecimal value HH (one or two hex digits) : the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the hexadecimal value HHHH (one to four hex digits) : the Unicode (ISO/IEC 10646) character whose value is the hexadecimal value HHHHHHHH (one to eight hex digits)  [ ] [ ] [   ] [  ...] Enable and disable builtin shell commands. Disabling a builtin allows a disk command which has the same name as a shell builtin to be executed without specifying a full pathname, even though the shell normally searches for builtins before disk commands. If   is used, each name is disabled; otherwise, names are enabled. For example, to use the test binary found via the PATH instead of the shell builtin version, run "enable   test". The   option means to load the new builtin command name from shared object filename, on systems that support dynamic loading. The   option will delete a builtin previously loaded with  . If no name arguments are given, or if the   option is supplied, a list of shell builtins is printed. With no other option arguments, the list consists of all enabled shell builtins. If   is supplied, only disabled builtins are printed. If   is supplied, the list printed includes all builtins, with an indication of whether or not each is enabled. If   is supplied, the output is restricted to the POSIX special builtins. The return value is 0 unless a name is not a shell builtin or there is an error loading a new builtin from a shared object.  [  ...] The  s are read and concatenated together into a single command. This command is then read and executed by the shell, and its exit status is returned as the value of  . If there are no  s, or only null arguments,   returns 0.  [ ] [   ] [  [ ]] If   is specified, it replaces the shell. No new process is created. The arguments become the arguments to  . If the   option is supplied, the shell places a dash at the beginning of the zeroth argument passed to command. This is what   does. The   option causes command to be executed with an empty environment. If   is supplied, the shell passes   as the zeroth argument to the executed command. If   cannot be executed for some reason, a non-interactive shell exits, unless the shell option   is enabled, in which case it returns failure. An interactive shell returns failure if the file cannot be executed. If   is not specified, any redirections take effect in the current shell, and the return status is 0. If there is a redirection error, the return status is 1.  [ ] Cause the shell to exit with a status of n. If n is omitted, the exit status is that of the last command executed. A trap on EXIT is executed before the shell terminates.  [ ] [ [= ]] ...   The supplied  s are marked for automatic export to the environment of subsequently executed commands. If the   option is given, the names refer to functions. If no  s are given, or if the   option is supplied, a list of all names that are exported in this shell is printed. The   option causes the export property to be removed from each name. If a variable name is followed by  , the value of the variable is set to  .   returns an exit status of 0 unless an invalid option is encountered, one of the  s is not a valid shell variable name, or   is supplied with a   that is not a function.  [   ] [ ] [ ] [ ]    [ = ] [ ] Fix Command. In the first form, a range of commands from   to   is selected from the history list. The   and   may be specified as a string (to locate the last command beginning with that string) or as a number (an index into the history list, where a negative number is used as an offset from the current command number). If   is not specified it is set to the current command for listing (so that " " prints the last 10 commands) and to   otherwise. If   is not specified it is set to the previous command for editing and -16 for listing. The   option suppresses the command numbers when listing. The   option reverses the order of the commands. If the   option is given, the commands are listed on standard output. Otherwise, the editor given by   is invoked on a file containing those commands. If   is not given, the value of the   variable is used, and the value of   if   is not set. If neither variable is set,   is used. When editing is complete, the edited commands are echoed and executed. In the second form, command is re-executed after each instance of   is replaced by  . A useful alias to use with this is " ", so that typing " " runs the last command beginning with " " and typing " " re-executes the last command. If the first form is used, the return value is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered or first or last specify history lines out of range. If the   option is supplied, the return value is the value of the last command executed or failure if an error occurs with the temporary file of commands. If the second form is used, the return status is that of the command re-executed, unless   does not specify a valid history line, in which case   returns failure.  [ ] Resume   in the foreground, and make it the current job. If   is not present, the shell's notion of the current job is used. The return value is that of the command placed into the foreground, or failure if run when job control is disabled or, when run with job control enabled, if   does not specify a valid job or   specifies a job that was started without job control.      [ ]  is used by shell procedures to parse positional parameters. The   contains the option characters to be recognized; if a character is followed by a colon, the option is expected to have an argument, which should be separated from it by white space. The colon and question mark characters may not be used as option characters. Each time it is invoked,   places the next option in the shell variable name, initializing name if it does not exist, and the index of the next argument to be processed into the variable  .   is initialized to 1 each time the shell or a shell script is invoked. When an option requires an argument,   places that argument into the variable  . The shell does not reset   automatically; it must be manually reset between multiple calls to   within the same shell invocation if a new set of parameters is to be used. When the end of options is encountered,   exits with a return value greater than zero.   is set to the index of the first non-option argument, and name is set to  .  normally parses the positional parameters, but if more arguments are given in  ,   parses those instead.  can report errors in two ways. If the first character of   is a colon, silent error reporting is used. In normal operation diagnostic messages are printed when invalid options or missing option arguments are encountered. If the variable   is set to 0, no error messages will be displayed, even if the first character of   is not a colon. If an invalid option is seen,   places   into   and, if not silent, prints an error message and unsets  . If   is silent, the option character found is placed in   and no diagnostic message is printed. If a required argument is not found, and   is not silent, a question mark ( ) is placed in  ,   is unset, and a diagnostic message is printed. If   is silent, then a colon ( ) is placed in name and   is set to the option character found.  returns true if an option, specified or unspecified, is found. It returns false if the end of options is encountered or an error occurs.  [ ] [   ] [ ] [ ] Each time   is invoked, the full pathname of the command name is determined by searching the directories in   and remembered. Any previously-remembered pathname is discarded. If the   option is supplied, no path search is performed, and filename is used as the full file name of the command. The   option causes the shell to forget all remembered locations. The   option causes the shell to forget the remembered location of each name. If the   option is supplied, the full pathname to which each name corresponds is printed. If multiple name arguments are supplied with  , the name is printed before the hashed full pathname. The   option causes output to be displayed in a format that may be reused as input. If no arguments are given, or if only   is supplied, information about remembered commands is printed. The return status is true unless a name is not found or an invalid option is supplied.  [ ] [ ] Display helpful information about builtin commands. If   is specified, help gives detailed help on all commands matching  ; otherwise help for all the builtins and shell control structures is printed.   Display a short description of each pattern   Display the description of each pattern in a  -like format   Display only a short usage synopsis for each pattern The return status is 0 unless no command matches  .  [ ]          [ ]      [  ...]      [  ...] With no options, display the command history list with line numbers. Lines listed with a   have been modified. An argument of   lists only the last   lines. If the shell variable   is set and not null, it is used as a format string for   to display the time stamp associated with each displayed history entry. No intervening blank is printed between the formatted time stamp and the history line. If filename is supplied, it is used as the name of the history file; if not, the value of   is used. Options, if supplied, have the following meanings: : Clear the history list by deleting all the entries.   : Delete the history entry at position  . : Append the "new" history lines (history lines entered since the beginning of the current bash session) to the history file. : Read the history lines not already read from the history file into the current history list. These are lines appended to the history file since the beginning of the current bash session. : Read the contents of the history file and use them as the current history. : Write the current history to the history file, overwriting the history file's contents. : Perform history substitution on the following  s and display the result on the standard output. Does not store the results in the history list. Each arg must be quoted to disable normal history expansion. : Store the  s in the history list as a single entry. The last command in the history list is removed before the  s are added. If the   variable is set, the time stamp information associated with each history entry is written to the history file, marked with the history comment character. When the history file is read, lines beginning with the history comment character followed immediately by a digit are interpreted as timestamps for the previous history line. The return value is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered, an error occurs while reading or writing the history file, an invalid offset is supplied as an argument to  , or the history expansion supplied as an argument to   fails.  [ ] [   ... ]      [   ... ] The first form lists the active jobs. The options have the following meanings: : List process IDs in addition to the normal information. : Display information only about jobs that have changed status since the user was last notified of their status. : List only the process ID of the job's process group leader. : Restrict output to running jobs. : Restrict output to stopped jobs. If   is given, output is restricted to information about that job. The return status is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered or an invalid   is supplied. If the   option is supplied, jobs replaces any   found in command or  s with the corresponding process group ID, and executes command passing it  s, returning its exit status.  [    |     | - ] [  |  ] ...    [  |  ] Send the signal named by   or   to the processes named by pid or jobspec. The   is either a case-insensitive signal name such as   (with or without the SIG prefix) or a signal number;   is a signal number. If   is not present, then   is assumed. An argument of   lists the signal names. If any arguments are supplied when   is given, the names of the signals corresponding to the arguments are listed, and the return status is 0. The   argument to   is a number specifying either a signal number or the exit status of a process terminated by a signal. The kill returns true if at least one signal was successfully sent, or false if an error occurs or an invalid option is encountered.    [  ...] Each   is an arithmetic expression to be evaluated (see the section " " above). If the last   evaluates to  , let returns  ;   is returned otherwise.  [ ] [ [= ] ...] For each argument, a local variable named   is created, and assigned value. The   can be any of the options accepted by  . When   is used within a function, it causes the variable   to have a visible scope restricted to that function and its children. With no operands,   writes a list of local variables to the standard output. It is an error to use   when not within a function. The return status is   unless   is used outside a function, an invalid   is supplied, or   is a readonly variable. Exit a login shell.  [   ] [   ] [   ] [ ] [   ] [   ] [   ] [ ]  [   ] [   ] [   ] [ ] [   ] [   ] [   ] [ ] Read lines from the standard input into the indexed array variable  , or from file descriptor fd if the   option is supplied. The variable   is the default  . Options, if supplied, have the following meanings: : Copy at most   lines. If   is 0, all lines are copied. : Begin assigning to   at index  . The default index is 0. : Discard the first   lines read. : Remove a trailing newline from each line read. : Read lines from file descriptor fd instead of the standard input. : Evaluate   each time   lines are read. The   option specifies  . : Specify the number of lines read between each call to  . If   is specified without  , the default   is 5000. When   is evaluated, it is supplied the index of the next   element to be assigned and the line to be assigned to that element as additional arguments. The   is evaluated after the line is read but before the   element is assigned. If not supplied with an explicit  ,   will clear   before assigning to it.  returns successfully unless an invalid option or option argument is supplied,   is invalid or unassignable, or if   is not an indexed array.  [ ] [ ] [ ] Removes entries from the directory stack. With no arguments, removes the top directory from the stack, and performs a   to the new top directory. Arguments, if supplied, have the following meanings: : Suppresses the normal change of directory when removing directories from the stack, so that only the stack is manipulated.  Removes the  th entry counting from the left of the list shown by  , starting with zero. For example: " " removes the first directory, " " the second.  Removes the  th entry counting from the right of the list shown by  , starting with zero. For example: " " removes the last directory, " " the next to last. If the   command is successful, a   is performed as well, and the return status is 0.   returns false if an invalid option is encountered, the directory stack is empty, a non-existent directory stack entry is specified, or the directory change fails.  [   ]   [ ] Write the formatted   to the standard output under the control of the  . The   option causes the output to be assigned to the variable var rather than being printed to the standard output. The format is a character string which contains three types of objects: plain characters, which are copied to standard output, character escape sequences, which are converted and copied to the standard output, and format specifications, each of which causes printing of the next successive argument. In addition to the   format specifications,   interprets the following extensions:  causes   to expand backslash escape sequences in the corresponding argument (except that   terminates output, backslashes in  ,  , and   are not removed, and   escapes beginning with   may contain up to four digits).  causes   to output the corresponding argument in a format that can be reused as shell input.  causes   to output the date-time string resulting from using   as a format string for  . The corresponding argument is an integer representing the number of seconds since the  . Two special argument values may be used:   represents the current time, and   represents the time the shell was invoked. Arguments to non-string format specifiers are treated as C constants, except that a leading plus or minus sign is allowed, and if the leading character is a single or double quote, the value is the ASCII value of the following character. The format is reused as necessary to consume all of the arguments. If the format requires more arguments than are supplied, the extra format specifications behave as if a zero value or null string, as appropriate, had been supplied. The return value is zero on success, non-zero on failure.  [ ] [ ] [ ]  [ ] [ ] Adds a directory to the top of the directory stack, or rotates the stack, making the new top of the stack the current working directory. With no arguments, exchanges the top two directories and returns 0, unless the directory stack is empty. Arguments, if supplied, have the following meanings: : Suppresses the normal change of directory when adding directories to the stack, so that only the stack is manipulated. : Rotates the stack so that the nth directory (counting from the left of the list shown by  , starting with zero) is at the top. : Rotates the stack so that the nth directory (counting from the right of the list shown by  , starting with zero) is at the top. : Adds   to the directory stack at the top, making it the new current working directory. If the   command is successful, a   is performed as well. If the first form is used,   returns 0 unless the   to   fails. With the second form,   returns 0 unless the directory stack is empty, a non-existent directory stack element is specified, or the directory change to the specified new current directory fails.  [ ] Print the   of the  . The pathname printed contains no   if the   option is supplied or the   physical option to the   builtin command is enabled. If the   option is used, the pathname printed may contain symbolic links. The return status is 0 unless an error occurs while reading the name of the current directory or an invalid option is supplied.  [ ] [   ] [   ] [   ] [   ] [   ] [   ] [   ] [   ] [  ...] One line is read from the standard input, or from the file descriptor   supplied as an argument to the   option, and the first word is assigned to the first name, the second word to the second name, and so on, with leftover words and their intervening separators assigned to the last name. If there are fewer words read from the input stream than names, the remaining names are assigned empty values. The characters in IFS are used to split the line into words. The backslash character ( ) may be used to remove any special meaning for the next character read and for line continuation. Options, if supplied, have the following meanings:   : The words are assigned to sequential indices of the array variable  , starting at 0. The   is unset before any new values are assigned. Other name arguments are ignored.   : The first character of   is used to terminate the input line, rather than newline. : If the standard input is coming from a terminal, readline (see "  above) is used to obtain the line. Readline uses the current (or default, if line editing was not previously active) editing settings.   : If readline is being used to read the line, text is placed into the editing buffer before editing begins.   : read returns after reading   characters rather than waiting for a complete line of input, but honor a delimiter if fewer than   characters are read before the delimiter.   : read returns after reading exactly   characters rather than waiting for a complete line of input, unless EOF is encountered or read times out. Delimiter characters encountered in the input are not treated specially and do not cause read to return until   characters are read.   : Display prompt on standard error, without a trailing newline, before attempting to read any input. The prompt is displayed only if input is coming from a terminal. : Backslash does not act as an escape character. The backslash is considered to be part of the line. In particular, a backslash-newline pair may not be used as a line continuation. : Silent mode. If input is coming from a terminal, characters are not echoed.    Cause read to time out and return failure if a complete line of input is not read within timeout seconds. The timeout may be a decimal number with a fractional portion following the decimal point. This option is only effective if read is reading input from a terminal, pipe, or other special file; it has no effect when reading from regular files. If timeout is 0, read returns success if input is available on the specified file descriptor, failure otherwise. The exit status is greater than 128 if the timeout is exceeded.   : Read input from file descriptor  . If no names are supplied, the line read is assigned to the variable REPLY. The return code is zero, unless end-of-file is encountered, read times out (in which case the return code is greater than 128), or an invalid file descriptor is supplied as the argument to  .  [ ] [ ] [ [= ] ...] The given  s are marked readonly; the values of these names may not be changed by subsequent assignment. If the   option is supplied, the functions corresponding to the names are so marked. The   option restricts the variables to indexed arrays; the   option restricts the variables to associative arrays. If both options are supplied,   takes precedence. If no   arguments are given, or if the   option is supplied, a list of all readonly names is printed. The other options may be used to restrict the output to a subset of the set of readonly names. The   option causes output to be displayed in a format that may be reused as input. If a variable   is followed by = , the value of the variable is set to  . The return status is 0 unless an invalid option is encountered, one of the  s is not a valid shell variable name, or   is supplied with a   that is not a function.  [ ] Causes a function to exit with the return value specified by  . If   is omitted, the return status is that of the last command executed in the function body. If used outside a function, but during execution of a script by the   ( ) command, it causes the shell to stop executing that script and return either   or the exit status of the last command executed within the script as the exit status of the script. If used outside a function and not during execution of a script by  , the return status is false. Any command associated with the RETURN trap is executed before execution resumes after the function or script.  [ ] [   ] [  ...]  [ ] [   ] [  ...] Without options, the name and value of each shell variable are displayed in a format that can be reused as input for setting or resetting the currently-set variables. Read-only variables cannot be reset. In posix mode, only shell variables are listed. The output is sorted according to the current locale. When options are specified, they set or unset shell attributes. Any arguments remaining after option processing are treated as values for the positional parameters and are assigned, in order, to  . Options, if specified, have the following meanings: : Automatically mark variables and functions that are modified or created for export to the environment of subsequent commands. : Report the status of terminated background jobs immediately, rather than before the next primary prompt. This is effective only when job control is enabled.  Exit immediately if a pipeline (which may consist of a single simple command), a subshell command enclosed in parentheses, or one of the commands executed as part of a command list enclosed by braces (see " " above) exits with a non-zero status. The shell does not exit if the command that fails is part of the command list immediately following a while or until keyword, part of the test following the   or   reserved words, part of any command executed in a   or   list except the command following the final   or  , any command in a pipeline but the last, or if the command's return value is being inverted with  . A trap on ERR, if set, is executed before the shell exits. This option applies to the shell environment and each subshell environment separately (see the section " " above), and may cause subshells to exit before executing all the commands in the subshell. : Disable pathname expansion. : Remember the location of commands as they are looked up for execution. This is enabled by default. : All arguments in the form of assignment statements are placed in the environment for a command, not just those that precede the command name. : Monitor mode. Job control is enabled. This option is on by default for interactive shells on systems that support it (see " ," above). Background processes run in a separate process group and a line containing their exit status is printed upon their completion. : Read commands but do not execute them. This may be used to check a shell script for syntax errors. This is ignored by interactive shells.   : The   can be one of the following: : Same as  . : Same as  . : Use an emacs-style command line editing interface. This is enabled by default when the shell is interactive, unless the shell is started with the   option. This also affects the editing interface used for read  . : Same as  . : Same as  . : Same as  . : Same as  . : Same as  . : Enable command history, as described above under HISTORY. This option is on by default in interactive shells. : The effect is as if the shell command " " had been executed (see " ," above). : Same as  . : Same as  . : Same as  . : Same as  . : Same as  . : Currently ignored. : Same as  . : Same as  . : Same as  . : Same as  . : If set, the return value of a pipeline is the value of the last (rightmost) command to exit with a non-zero status, or zero if all commands in the pipeline exit successfully. This option is disabled by default. posix Change the behavior of bash where the default operation differs from the POSIX standard to match the standard (posix mode). : Same as  . : Same as  . : Use a vi-style command line editing interface. This also affects the editing interface used for read  . : Same as  . If   is supplied with no  , the values of the current options are printed. If   is supplied with no  , a series of   commands to recreate the current option settings is displayed on the standard output. : Turn on privileged mode. In this mode, the   and   files are not processed, shell functions are not inherited from the environment, and the  ,  ,  , and   variables, if they appear in the environment, are ignored. If the shell is started with the effective user (group) id not equal to the real user (group) id, and the   option is not supplied, these actions are taken and the effective user id is set to the real user id. If the   option is supplied at startup, the effective user id is not reset. Turning this option off causes the effective user and group ids to be set to the real user and group ids. : Exit after reading and executing one command. : Treat unset variables and parameters other than the special parameters " " and " " as an error when performing parameter expansion. If expansion is attempted on an unset variable or parameter, the shell prints an error message, and, if not interactive, exits with a non-zero status. : Print shell input lines as they are read. : After expanding each  ,   command,   command,   command, or arithmetic   command, display the expanded value of  , followed by the command and its expanded arguments or associated word list. : The shell performs brace expansion (see   above). This is on by default. : If set, bash does not overwrite an existing file with the  ,  , and   redirection operators. This may be overridden when creating output files by using the redirection operator   instead of  . : If set, any trap on ERR is inherited by shell functions, command substitutions, and commands executed in a subshell environment. The ERR trap is normally not inherited in such cases. : Enable   style history substitution. This option is on by default when the shell is interactive. : If set, the shell does not follow symbolic links when executing commands such as   that change the current working directory. It uses the physical directory structure instead. By default, bash follows the logical chain of directories when performing commands which change the current directory.  If set, any traps on DEBUG and RETURN are inherited by shell functions, command substitutions, and commands executed in a subshell environment. The DEBUG and RETURN traps are normally not inherited in such cases.  If no arguments follow this option, then the positional parameters are unset. Otherwise, the positional parameters are set to the  , even if some of them begin with a  .  Signal the end of options, cause all remaining   to be assigned to the positional parameters. The   and   options are turned off. If there are no  , the positional parameters remain unchanged. The options are off by default unless otherwise noted. Using   rather than   causes these options to be turned off. The options can also be specified as arguments to an invocation of the shell. The current set of options may be found in  . The return status is always true unless an invalid option is encountered.  [ ] The positional parameters from  +1 ... are renamed to   .... Parameters represented by the numbers   down to  - +1 are unset. The   must be a non-negative number less than or equal to  . If   is 0, no parameters are changed. If   is not given, it is assumed to be 1. If   is greater than  , the positional parameters are not changed. The return status is greater than zero if   is greater than   or less than zero; otherwise 0.  [ ] [ ] [  ...] Toggle the values of variables controlling optional shell behavior. With no options, or with the   option, a list of all settable options is displayed, with an indication of whether or not each is set. The   option causes output to be displayed in a form that may be reused as input. Other options have the following meanings: : Enable (set) each  . : Disable (unset) each  . : Suppresses normal output (quiet mode); the return status indicates whether the   is set or unset. If multiple   arguments are given with  , the return status is zero if all  s are enabled; non-zero otherwise. : Restricts the values of   to be those defined for the   option to the set builtin. If either   or   is used with no   arguments, the display is limited to those options that are set or unset, respectively. Unless otherwise noted, the shopt options are disabled (unset) by default. The return status when listing options is zero if all  s are enabled, non-zero otherwise. When setting or unsetting options, the return status is zero unless an   is not a valid shell option. The list of   options is: : If set, a command name that is the name of a directory is executed as if it were the argument to the   command. This option is only used by interactive shells. : If set, an argument to the   builtin command that is not a directory is assumed to be the name of a variable whose value is the directory to change to. : If set, minor errors in the spelling of a directory component in a   command will be corrected. The errors checked for are transposed characters, a missing character, and one character too many. If a correction is found, the corrected file name is printed, and the command proceeds. This option is only used by interactive shells. : If set, bash checks that a command found in the hash table exists before trying to execute it. If a hashed command no longer exists, a normal path search is performed. : If set, bash lists the status of any stopped and running jobs before exiting an interactive shell. If any jobs are running, this causes the exit to be deferred until a second exit is attempted without an intervening command (see the section " "). The shell always postpones exiting if any jobs are stopped. : If set, bash checks the window size after each command and, if necessary, updates the values of LINES and COLUMNS. : If set, bash attempts to save all lines of a multiple-line command in the same history entry. This allows easy re-editing of multi-line commands. : If set, bash changes its behavior to that of version 3.1 with respect to quoted arguments to the   conditional command's   operator. : If set, bash changes its behavior to that of version 3.2 with respect to locale-specific string comparison when using the   conditional command's   and   operators. Bash versions before bash-4.1 use ASCII collation and  ; bash-4.1 and later use the current locale's collation sequence and  . : If set, bash changes its behavior to that of version 4.0 with respect to locale-specific string comparison when using the   conditional command's   and   operators (see previous item) and the effect of interrupting a command list. : If set, bash, when in posix mode, treats a single quote in a double-quoted parameter expansion as a special character. The single quotes must match (an even number) and the characters between the single quotes are considered quoted. This is the behavior of posix mode through version 4.1. The default bash behavior remains as in previous versions. : If set, bash replaces directory names with the results of word expansion when performing filename completion. This changes the contents of the readline editing buffer. If not set, bash attempts to preserve what the user typed. : If set, bash attempts spelling correction on directory names during word completion if the directory name initially supplied does not exist. : If set, bash includes filenames beginning with a ' ' in the results of pathname expansion. : If set, a non-interactive shell will not exit if it cannot execute the file specified as an argument to the   builtin command. An interactive shell does not exit if   fails. : If set, aliases are expanded as described above under ALIASES. This option is enabled by default for interactive shells. : If set, behavior intended for use by   is enabled: : If set, the extended pattern matching features described above under   are enabled. : If set,   and   quoting is performed within   expansions enclosed in double quotes. This option is enabled by default. : If set, patterns which fail to match filenames during pathname expansion result in an expansion error. : If set, the suffixes specified by the FIGNORE shell variable cause words to be ignored when performing word completion even if the ignored words are the only possible completions. See " " above for a description of  . This option is enabled by default. : If set, the pattern   used in a pathname expansion context will match all files and zero or more directories and subdirectories. If the pattern is followed by a  , only directories and subdirectories match. : If set, shell error messages are written in the standard GNU error message format. : If set, the history list is appended to the file named by the value of the   variable when the shell exits, rather than overwriting the file. : If set, and readline is being used, a user is given the opportunity to re-edit a failed history substitution. : If set, and readline is being used, the results of history substitution are not immediately passed to the shell parser. Instead, the resulting line is loaded into the readline editing buffer, allowing further modification. : If set, and readline is being used, bash will attempt to perform hostname completion when a word containing a   is being completed (see " " under " ," above). This is enabled by default. : If set, bash will send   to all jobs when an interactive login shell exits. : If set, allow a word beginning with   to cause that word and all remaining characters on that line to be ignored in an interactive shell (see " " above). This option is enabled by default. : If set, and job control is not active, the shell runs the last command of a pipeline not executed in the background in the current shell environment. : If set, and the   option is enabled, multi-line commands are saved to the history with embedded newlines rather than using semicolon separators where possible. : The shell sets this option if it is started as a login shell (see " " above). The value may not be changed. : If set, and a file that bash is checking for mail has been accessed since the last time it was checked, the message "The mail in mailfile has been read" is displayed. : If set, and readline is being used, bash will not attempt to search the   for possible completions when completion is attempted on an empty line. : If set, bash matches filenames in a case-insensitive fashion when performing pathname expansion (see " " above). : If set, bash matches patterns in a case-insensitive fashion when performing matching while executing   or   conditional commands. : If set, bash allows patterns which match no files (see " " above) to expand to a null string, rather than themselves. : If set, the programmable completion facilities (see " " above) are enabled. This option is enabled by default. : If set, prompt strings undergo parameter expansion, command substitution, arithmetic expansion, and quote removal after being expanded as described in " " above. This option is enabled by default. : The shell sets this option if it is started in restricted mode (see " " below). The value may not be changed. This is not reset when the startup files are executed, allowing the startup files to discover whether or not a shell is restricted. : If set, the   builtin prints an error message when the shift count exceeds the number of positional parameters. : If set, the   ( ) builtin uses the value of PATH to find the directory containing the file supplied as an argument. This option is enabled by default. If set, the   builtin expands backslash-escape sequences by default.  [ ] Suspend the execution of this shell until it receives a   signal. A login shell cannot be suspended; the   option can be used to override this and force the suspension. The return status is 0 unless the shell is a login shell and   is not supplied, or if job control is not enabled.       Return a status of 0 or 1 depending on the evaluation of the conditional expression  . Each operator and operand must be a separate argument. Expressions are composed of the primaries described above under " ."   does not accept any options, nor does it accept and ignore an argument of   as signifying the end of options. Expressions may be combined using the following operators, listed in decreasing order of precedence. The evaluation depends on the number of arguments; see below. Operator precedence is used when there are five or more arguments.   : True if   is false.     : Returns the value of  . This may be used to override the normal precedence of operators.     : True if both   and   are true.     : True if either   or   is true.  and   evaluate conditional expressions using a set of rules based on the number of arguments. : The expression is false. : The expression is true if and only if the argument is not null. : If the first argument is  , the expression is true if and only if the second argument is null. If the first argument is one of the unary conditional operators listed above under  , the expression is true if the unary test is true. If the first argument is not a valid unary conditional operator, the expression is false. : The following conditions are applied in the order listed. If the second argument is one of the binary conditional operators listed above under  , the result of the expression is the result of the binary test using the first and third arguments as operands. The   and   operators are considered binary operators when there are three arguments. If the first argument is  , the value is the negation of the two-argument test using the second and third arguments. If the first argument is exactly ( and the third argument is exactly ), the result is the one-argument test of the second argument. Otherwise, the expression is false. : If the first argument is  , the result is the negation of the three-argument expression composed of the remaining arguments. Otherwise, the expression is parsed and evaluated according to precedence using the rules listed above. : The expression is parsed and evaluated according to precedence using the rules listed above. When used with   or  , the   and   operators sort lexicographically using ASCII ordering. Print the accumulated user and system times for the shell and for processes run from the shell. The return status is 0.  [ ] [[ ]   ...] The command   is to be read and executed when the shell receives signal(s)  . If   is absent (and there is a single  ) or  , each specified signal is reset to its original disposition (the value it had upon entrance to the shell). If   is the null string the signal specified by each   is ignored by the shell and by the commands it invokes. If   is not present and   has been supplied, then the trap commands associated with each   are displayed. If no arguments are supplied or if only   is given, trap prints the list of commands associated with each signal. The   option causes the shell to print a list of signal names and their corresponding numbers. Each   is either a signal name defined in  , or a signal number. Signal names are case insensitive and the   prefix is optional. If a   is EXIT (0) the command   is executed on exit from the shell. If a   is DEBUG, the command   is executed before every simple command, for command, case command, select command, every arithmetic for command, and before the first command executes in a shell function (see " ," above). Refer to the description of the   option to the   builtin for details of its effect on the DEBUG trap. If a   is RETURN, the command   is executed each time a shell function or a script executed with the . or source builtins finishes executing. If a   is ERR, the command   is executed whenever a simple command has a non-zero exit status, subject to the following conditions. The ERR trap is not executed if the failed command is part of the command list immediately following a while or until keyword, part of the test in an if statement, part of a command executed in a   or   list, or if the command's return value is being inverted via  . These are the same conditions obeyed by the errexit option. Signals ignored upon entry to the shell cannot be trapped or reset. Trapped signals that are not being ignored are reset to their original values in a subshell or subshell environment when one is created. The return status is false if any   is invalid; otherwise trap returns true.  [ ]   [  ...] With no options, indicate how each   would be interpreted if used as a command name. If the   option is used, type prints a string that is one of alias, keyword, function, builtin, or file if   is an alias, shell reserved word, function, builtin, or disk file, respectively. If the   is not found, then nothing is printed, and an exit status of false is returned. If the   option is used, type either returns the name of the disk file that would be executed if   were specified as a command name, or nothing if " " would not return file. The   option forces a   search for each  , even if " " would not return file. If a command is hashed,   and   print the hashed value, not necessarily the file that appears first in  . If the   option is used, type prints all of the places that contain an executable named  . This includes aliases and functions, if and only if the   option is not also used. The table of hashed commands is not consulted when using  . The   option suppresses shell function lookup, as with the command builtin.   returns true if all of the arguments are found, false if any are not found.  [  [ ]] Provides control over the resources available to the shell and to processes started by it, on systems that allow such control. The   and   options specify that the hard or soft   is set for the given resource. A hard   cannot be increased by a non-root user once it is set; a soft   may be increased up to the value of the hard  . If neither   nor   is specified, both the soft and hard  s are set. The value of   can be a number in the unit specified for the resource or one of the special values hard, soft, or unlimited, which stand for the current hard  , the current soft  , and no limit, respectively. If   is omitted, the current value of the soft   of the resource is printed, unless the   option is given. When more than one resource is specified, the   name and unit are printed before the value. Other options are interpreted as follows: : All current  s are reported. : The maximum socket buffer size. : The maximum size of core files created. : The maximum size of a process's data segment. : The maximum scheduling priority (" "). : The maximum size of files written by the shell and its children. : The maximum number of pending signals. : The maximum size that may be locked into memory. : The maximum resident set size (many systems do not honor this  ). : The maximum number of open file descriptors (most systems do not allow this value to be set). : The pipe size in 512-byte blocks (this may not be set). : The maximum number of bytes in POSIX message queues. : The maximum real-time scheduling priority. : The maximum stack size. : The maximum amount of cpu time in seconds. : The maximum number of processes available to a single user. : The maximum amount of virtual memory available to the shell and, on some systems, to its children. : The maximum number of file locks. : The maximum number of threads. If   is given, it is the new value of the specified resource (the   option is display only). If no option is given, then   is assumed. Values are in 1024-byte increments, except for  , which is in seconds,  , which is in units of 512-byte blocks, and  ,  ,  , and  , which are unscaled values. The return status is 0 unless an invalid option or argument is supplied, or an error occurs while setting a new  .  [ ] [ ] [ ] The   is set to  . If mode begins with a digit, it is interpreted as an octal number; otherwise it is interpreted as a symbolic mode mask similar to that accepted by  . If mode is omitted, the current value of the mask is printed. The   option causes the mask to be printed in symbolic form; the default output is an octal number. If the   option is supplied, and mode is omitted, the output is in a form that may be reused as input. The return status is 0 if the mode was successfully changed or if no mode argument was supplied, and false otherwise.  [ ] [  ...] Remove each   from the list of defined aliases. If   is supplied, all alias definitions are removed. The return value is true unless a supplied   is not a defined alias.  [ ] [  ...] For each  , remove the corresponding variable or function. If no options are supplied, or the   option is given, each   refers to a shell variable. Readonly variables may not be unset. If   is specified, each   refers to a shell function, and the function definition is removed. Each unset variable or function is removed from the environment passed to subsequent commands. If any of  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , or   are unset, they lose their special properties, even if they are subsequently reset. The exit status is true unless a   is readonly.  [  ...] Wait for each specified process and return its termination status. Each   may be a process ID or a job specification; if a job spec is given, all processes in that job's pipeline are waited for. If   is not given, all currently active child processes are waited for, and the return status is zero. If   specifies a non-existent process or job, the return status is 127. Otherwise, the return status is the exit status of the last process or job waited for. If bash is started with the name  , or the   option is supplied at invocation, the shell becomes  . A   is used to set up an environment more controlled than the standard shell. It behaves identically to bash with the exception that the following are disallowed or not performed: These restrictions are enforced after any startup files are read. When a command that is found to be a shell script is executed (see the section " " above), rbash turns off any restrictions in the shell spawned to execute the script. The bash executable. The systemwide initialization file, executed for login shells. The systemwide per-interactive-shell startup file. The systemwide login shell cleanup file, executed when a login shell exits. The personal initialization file, executed for login shells. The individual per-interactive-shell startup file. The individual login shell cleanup file, executed when a login shell exits. Individual readline initialization file. Launches the bash command interpreter. The remainder of the examples will assume that you are at a bash prompt. Sets the value of variable   to "This is the value of my variable." Prints the value of  . Prints " " Prints " ". environment variable   to " " Prints the value of the environment variable  . This one-line command prints " ". This command does a few things: Prints " ". Prints the following:   The C shell command interpreter.   The Korn shell command interpreter.   The Bourne shell command interpreter. 