Offered By This course aims to teach everyone the basics of programming computers using Python. We cover the basics of how one constructs a program from a series of simple instructions in Python.  The course has no pre-requisites and avoids all but the simplest mathematics. Anyone with moderate computer experience should be able to master the materials in this course. This course will cover Chapters 1-5 of the textbook “Python for Everybody”.  Once a student completes this course, they will be ready to take more advanced programming courses. This course covers Python 3. Install Python and write your first program Describe the basics of the Python programming language Use variables to store, retrieve and calculate information Utilize core programming tools such as functions and loops The mission of the University of Michigan is to serve the people of Michigan and the world through preeminence in creating, communicating, preserving and applying knowledge, art, and academic values, and in developing leaders and citizens who will challenge the present and enrich the future. These are the course-wide materials as well as the first part of Chapter One where we explore what it means to write programs.  We finish Chapter One and have the quiz and first assignment in the third week of the class. Throughout the course you may want to come back and look at these materials.  This section should not take you an entire week.  In this module you will set things up so you can write Python programs.  Not all activities in this module are required for this class so please read the "Using Python in this Class" material for details. In the first chapter we try to cover the "big picture" of programming so you get a "table of contents" of the rest of the book.   Don't worry if not everything makes perfect sense the first time you hear it.   This chapter is quite broad and you would benefit from reading the chapter in the book in addition to watching the lectures to help it all sink in.  You might want to come back and re-watch these lectures after you have funished a few more chapters. In this chapter we cover how a program uses the computer's memory to store, retrieve and calculate information. In this section we move from sequential code that simply runs one line of code after another to conditional code where some steps are skipped.  It is a very simple concept - but it is how computer software makes "choices". This is a relatively short chapter.   We will learn about what functions are and how we can use them.   The programs in the first chapters of the book are not large enough to require us to develop functions, but as the book moves into more and more complex programs, functions will be an essential way for us to make sense of our code. Loops and iteration complete our four basic programming patterns.  Loops are the way we tell Python to do something over and over.   Loops are the way we build programs that stay with a problem until the problem is solved. Dr. Chuck has a special ability to teach programming to people who doesn't necessarily have programming background. This is rare among programming teachers, and shows that he is an excellent educator. Thank you. It was a worthwhile course. Entertaining as well. I just wish that there were more sample homework before the exercises so students could see how the lessons are applied to actual problems. Great introduction to Python and programming as a whole. Everything is broken down making it easy to understand. Had zero programming experience before and this class made it easy and fun to get into. Extremely basic but Dr. Chuck is so interesting that you never get bored. You can pass the course in a few days with minimum or even no programming knowledge. It's a good starting point for beginners. When will I have access to the lectures and assignments? Access to lectures and assignments depends on your type of enrollment. If you take a course in audit mode, you will be able to see most course materials for free. To access graded assignments and to earn a Certificate, you will need to purchase the Certificate experience, during or after your audit. If you don't see the audit option:  What will I get if I subscribe to this Specialization? When you enroll in the course, you get access to all of the courses in the Specialization, and you earn a certificate when you complete the work. Your electronic Certificate will be added to your Accomplishments page - from there, you can print your Certificate or add it to your LinkedIn profile.  If you only want to read and view the course content, you can audit the course for free. What is the refund policy? If you subscribed, you get a 7-day free trial during which you can cancel at no penalty. After that, we don’t give refunds, but you can cancel your subscription at any time.  . Is financial aid available? Yes, Coursera provides financial aid to learners who cannot afford the fee. Apply for it by clicking on the Financial Aid link beneath the "Enroll" button on the left. You'll be prompted to complete an application and will be notified if you are approved. You'll need to complete this step for each course in the Specialization, including the Capstone Project.  . Will I earn university credit for completing the Course? This Course doesn't carry university credit, but some universities may choose to accept Course Certificates for credit. Check with your institution to learn more.   and   on Coursera provide the opportunity to earn university credit. 