UVic researchers are driving recovery from COVID-19. The UVic Research Accelerator Fund advances big ideas to make real change in our everyday lives. Connect with community and start a conversation in The Great Indoors blog. Graduation may look different this year, but your achievements are as momentous as ever. Your UVic experience has primed you for the opportunities and challenges that lie ahead. We know that you, our newest alumni, will step out into the world prepared to make it a better place and we’re so proud of you. Mary Kerr’s designs have helped transform Canadian culture over the past five decades. And now she’s the first designer in history to win a Molson Prize, joining the likes of Margaret Atwood, Richard Wagamese and Glenn Gould. Heather Buckley, green chemist and engineering professor, creates tools for better monitoring of drinking water contaminants and safer water treatment. Canada’s first-ever Associate University Librarian—Reconciliation Ry Moran will partner with Indigenous communities to help preserve and sustain Indigenous knowledge. Amanda Vick (Gitxsan), a second-year student in the UVic joint degree program in Canadian Common Law and Indigenous Legal Orders, aims to change the legal landscape in Canada UVic civil engineering professor Ralph Evins is using machine learning to design energy-efficient buildings that don’t yet exist. UVic will offer most courses online this fall. We’re planning a gradual return to campus for employees and a resumption of research activities. Your academic success, health and safety are our priorities. Dynamic, hands-on learning; research that makes a vital impact; and discovery and innovation in Canada's most extraordinary academic environment provide an Edge that can't be found anywhere else. Learn more about the  .  .  . Dynamic learning creates a natural advantage for our students. We tackle essential issues that matter—to people, places and the planet. Our environment inspires us to defy boundaries and innovate in exciting ways. We acknowledge with respect the Lekwungen peoples on whose traditional territory the University of Victoria stands, and the Songhees, Esquimalt and W̱SÁNEĆ peoples whose historical relationships with the land continue to this day. National Post MyUVic Life University of Victoria 
 3800 Finnerty Road 
 Victoria BC  V8P 5C2 
 Canada 
 Phone:  
 Fax:  
 
 