One of the world’s great intellectual destinations, the University of Chicago empowers scholars and students to ask tough questions, cross disciplinary boundaries, and challenge conventional thinking to enrich human life around the globe. Join a community of the world’s brightest minds and prepare to tackle its greatest problems. Here, your ideas will be heard, supported, questioned, tested, and honed as you form a network of lifelong friends, colleagues, and collaborators. With an unwavering focus on rigorous inquiry, UChicago research continually breaks new intellectual ground. Across disciplines, departments, and over 140 institutes and centers, our researchers produce ideas that matter—and change the world. With a powerful combination of academic research, medical education, and compassionate patient care, the University of Chicago has been at the forefront of medicine since 1927. At UChicago, civic engagement is an institution-wide commitment that draws upon our strength as an economic anchor and on the power of education, research, and innovation to create real, lasting impact and opportunity, in Chicago and beyond. For more than a century, University of Chicago faculty and students have engaged around the world. Today, that reach extends farther than ever. Explore our overseas centers and global programs. UChicago’s ivy-covered campus welcomes a diverse community of students, faculty, staff, and visitors who engage in inspired work and play, from spirited discussions on academics and art to competitions in athletics and the world’s largest, most legendary scavenger hunt. Nationwide effort to build quantum networks and usher in new era of communications Video series explores impacts of coronavirus—from health care to international relations Larry McEnerney, AM’80, reflects on 40 years of teaching in the Little Red Schoolhouse President, Provost announce steps to address racism and engage with UChicago, South Side communities - New websites focus on how UChicago is  ,  , and  . Discover the global city UChicago calls home—filled with inspiration, innovation, and countless opportunities to explore. 
 
 
 ©2020 The University of Chicago 