Please tell us about the city you studied in or a city  Answer a few simple questions and   If you already have an idea what you want to study and where, click ‘I know what I want to do!’. If you need some more help, click ‘Not sure where to start?’ with the QS World University Rankings 2021, or find the right university for you in the QS World University Rankings by Subject and the QS World University Rankings by Region. This year’s QS World University Rankings reveals the top 1,000 universities from around the world, covering 80 different locations. There are 47 new entrants in this year’s top 1,000 while over 5,500 universities were evaluated and considered for inclusion. For more information on this process, consult our  . While the   continues its record-breaking streak at number one - the ninth year in a row it’s achieved this feat - the big story this year is the impressive gains made by Asian universities. 26 institutions from the continent now feature in the global top 100, more than ever before. This year’s rankings are launched at a challenging time for the whole world, with COVID-19 impacting universities and students alike. For the latest information on COVID-19 for students, please visit our dedicated  . We are also contacting universities to learn more about how the pandemic is impacting applications, and this information can be found on our  . Want to share your thoughts on this year’s ranking? Has this helped you make your mind up about where to apply? Tweet us   or use the #QSWUR hashtag and let us know!  Discover the 10 highest ranked universities in the world, based on the QS World University Rankings® 2021. Discover which universities in the UK come out on top in the QS World University Rankings 2021. These are the top 100 US universities, based upon the QS World University Rankings: USA 2020. Find out which universities are the best in your home state. Discover the top universities in Australia this year with the QS World University Rankings 2021. , and which course is the best match for your interests and ambitions? In our discover section, find information about programs, locations and scholarships. While data science and artificial intelligence aren’t breaking news anymore, the continuous impact they have on society and business is. Read our short article to find out more.  Thinking of pursuing a degree in aerospace business management? There’s only one place where you’ll want to do that. In the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, Singapore’s flagship graduate medical school, Duke-NUS Medical School is developing tomorrow’s clinician scientists for the challenges that come with a rapidly evolving medical landscape. The city of Kyoto has a lot to offer, especially when it comes to those who wish to study here. New and innovative digital tools are allowing healthcare systems worldwide to treat patients without the need for face-to-face contact. We find out how one university in Chile is contributing to the growing demand for telemedicine services. With so many degree options out there it can be hard to know which one is right for you. If you’ve got a keen interest in international trade and all things business and management, you might want to read on. Wondering whether it’s possible to study a master’s degree in a subject unrelated to your undergraduate degree? Don’t worry, you’re in good company. We spoke with one student who did just that.  Story books are the way forward when it comes to helping society better understand the importance of science in everyday life. Student clubs, societies and organizations aren’t just a great way to make new friends and gain new experiences – they can also help make your CV stand out from the rest.  QS hosts virtual and in-person events, giving you the opportunity to network with admissions directors and alumni from the world's top universities. Are you thinking about undertaking a Masters or PhD? Need to understand the admissions process, the requirements, and the benefits? Planning to study an MBA? Speak to admissions officers from top business schools at the QS World MBA Tour. Find out about how the QS virtual events work, and what you can do to prepare for one.  with our free guides and advice on choosing a university, funding your studies, preparing for admissions exams, and applying for student visas. The countdown to your adventure starts here! Get ready to apply to grad school, with our annual guide to studying a master’s or PhD abroad. Get your free guides to studying abroad in popular locations, plus advice about scholarships, careers and more. If you’re interested in pursuing a bachelor’s degree in business, check out these helpful tips to stand out from the crowd and land your dream program. The decision to leave work to study a full-time MBA isn’t an easy one – especially when it comes to funding it. Looking for the perfect master’s in management to kickstart your career? Look no further. Get answers to all your questions about scholarship applications, including tips on how to find scholarships and chances of success. Got tuition fees on your mind? Discover the current cost of studying at the world’s top universities.  Use our free resources for each stage of the process, from compiling your application and writing a personal statement, to making a strong impression in an admissions interview. QS Stars offers an alternative way of researching universities, with more detail than a typical university ranking. Find out what you need to know about QS Stars. Read our short article to find out everything you need to know about applying to business school. Want to add a postgraduate qualification to your bow but need help choosing the right specialization for you? Allow us to help. Trying to choose a university? Find out how our new matching tool can help! QS LEAP has recently won awards for its test prep services, used by students from around the world. Here’s everything you need to know about the service. It’s not too late to apply for a university place starting September 2019. New York University (NYU) is becoming the first US university to cover the costs of tuition fees for medical students, regardless of merit or need. Find out more.  Explore career options with your degree, and get practical advice to prepare yourself for the competitive graduate jobs market. You don’t need to have all the business know-how when it comes to starting your own venture. Find out how this art & design graduate did it. There’s a growing demand for engineer graduates, so if you’re considering a degree in the in-demand field of engineering then here are some key skills that will take you far. Wondering where a bachelor in management degree can take you? Here are some of your not so run-of-the-mill career path prospects… Interested in a career in conservation science? Learn how a master’s in conservation biology or a master’s in conservation science can land you your dream role. With specialized business master’s degrees on the rise, we take a closer look at the benefits they can have on your career development. Technology is having a tremendous impact on all areas of business and society. We take a look at why entrepreneurs need these seven tech skills to help them succeed. Wondering an engineering degree can take you? Here are eight exciting (and well-paid!) career paths you might want to consider. The world of business is booming with job opportunities from digital strategy to finance, business intelligence to innovation. Find out which of them is the right one for you. Do you dream of being your own boss and having your own business? Here are eight top tips to help you go from graduate to entrepreneur.  , and to share your own experiences, join the TopUniversities community! Check out the latest posts from our bloggers, watch videos and join discussions in our student forum. Ever wondered what student life is like at one of the UK’s highest-ranked universities? We spoke to the University of Warwick to find out more. Education experts from around the world met at the University of Navarra to discuss how the university experience for students and institutions will change for the better. Coming back home from a year abroad can almost be as hard as leaving in the first place. Here are some tips on how to adjust. Studying abroad means immersing yourself in a new city and culture, surrounded by people you don't know. For an introvert, it can be overwhelming, which is why we're here to help. Sexual harassment shouldn’t be the norm on nights out – but what can be done about it? Sign up to our   to receive regular content highlights direct to your inbox. Find your    Answer a few questions and  our program matching tool  will do the rest! 