Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. ,    of  , usually   a   of   and sciences and graduate and professional schools and having the   to confer degrees in various fields of study. A university differs from a college in that it is usually larger, has a broader curriculum, and offers graduate and professional degrees in addition to undergraduate degrees. Although universities did not arise in the West until the   in Europe, they existed in some parts of Asia and Africa in ancient times. The modern Western university evolved from the   schools known as  ; they were generally recognized places of study open to students from all parts of  . The earliest   arose out of efforts to educate clerks and   beyond the level of the cathedral and   schools. The inclusion of scholars from foreign countries   the primary difference between the   and the schools from which they grew. The earliest Western institution that can be called a university was a famous medical school that arose at  ,  , in the 9th century and drew students from all over Europe. It remained merely a medical school, however. The first true university in the West was founded at   late in the 11th century. It became a widely respected school of   and  . The first university to arise in northern Europe was the  , founded between 1150 and 1170. It became noted for its   of  , and it served as a model for other universities in northern Europe such as the   in England, which was well established by the end of the 12th century. The Universities of Paris and Oxford were composed of colleges, which were actually endowed   halls for scholars. These early universities were corporations of students and masters, and they eventually received their charters from  ,  , and  . The  , founded by Emperor   (1224), was the first to be established under imperial authority, while the University of Toulouse, founded by Pope   (1229), was the first to be established by papal decree. These universities were free to govern themselves, provided they taught neither   nor  . Students and masters together elected their own rectors (presidents). As the   of independence, however, universities had to   themselves. So teachers charged fees, and, to assure themselves of a livelihood, they had to please their students. These early universities had no permanent buildings and little corporate  , and they were subject to the loss of dissatisfied students and masters who could migrate to another   and establish a place of study there. The history of the   began in 1209 when a number of disaffected students moved there from Oxford, and 20 years later Oxford profited by a migration of students from the University of Paris. From the 13th century on, universities were established in many of the principal cities of Europe. Universities were founded at Montpellier (beginning of the 13th century) and Aix-en-Provence (1409) in  , at   (1222),   (1303), and   (1321) in Italy, at   (1218) in  , at Prague (1348) and   (1365) in central Europe, at   (1386),   (1409), Freiburg (1457), and   (1477) in what is now  , at Louvain (1425) in present-day  , and at   (1411) and   (1451) in Scotland. Until the end of the 18th century, most Western universities offered a core curriculum based on the seven liberal arts:  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and  . Students then proceeded to study under one of the professional faculties of  ,  , and theology. Final examinations were grueling, and many students failed. The     of the 16th century and the ensuing   affected the universities of Europe in different ways. In the German states, new Protestant universities were founded and older schools were taken over by Protestants, while many   universities became staunch defenders of the traditional   associated with the Catholic church. By the 17th century, both Protestant and Catholic universities had become overly devoted to defending correct   and hence remained resistant to the new interest in   that had begun to sweep through Europe. The new learning was discouraged, and thus many universities underwent a period of relative decline. New schools continued to be founded during this time, however, including ones at Edinburgh (1583), Leiden (1575), and Strasbourg (university status, 1621). The first modern university in Europe was that of  , founded by   in 1694. This school was one of the first to renounce religious orthodoxy of any kind in favour of rational and objective   inquiry, and it was the first where teachers lectured in   (i.e., a   language) rather than in  . Halle’s   were adopted by the   (founded 1737) a generation later and subsequently by most German and many American universities. In the later 18th and 19th centuries   was gradually displaced as the dominant force as European universities became institutions of modern learning and research and were secularized in their curriculum and administration. These trends were typified by the   (1809), in which   experimentation replaced conjecture; theological, philosophical, and other traditional doctrines were examined with a new rigour and objectivity; and modern standards of   were pioneered. The German model of the university as a complex of graduate schools performing advanced research and experimentation proved to have a worldwide influence. 