The University of Guelph, and everyone who studies here, explores here, teaches here and works here, is committed
        to one simple purpose: To Improve Life. Our research at the University of Guelph improves life. We explore, we innovate, we invent,
                            we educate; we create new knowledge that crosses natural, artificial and social boundaries
                            to produce solutions that both protect and enlighten the eco-system of sustainable living.
                            From how we feed the world to how we prosper and co-exist abroad and here at home, we will
                            challenge the status quo and improve upon it.  The University of Guelph is one of Canada’s leading innovation and comprehensive
                            postsecondary institutions. Because there are no single solutions to the world’s challenges,
                            we educate and learn across disciplines. We learn through collaboration. Our students are
                            better prepared for whatever the future holds as a result.  Undergraduate and graduate studies, co-op education, open learning and international
                            learning, the flexibility to tailor learning to the personal aspirations of everyone who
                            studies and explores here: How we continuously improve learning and education improves life
                            for our students, faculty, staff and in the context of our collective futures. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 There are over 140,000 U of G alumni around the world. The number grows by about 5,000 every
                            year. This is our extended community of achievers. This is your network of like-minded
                            Gryphons who are shaping a better world through their pursuits in just about every walk of
                            life, research and work imaginable.  As Alumni, graduates share events, activities and opportunities to benefit directly. They
                            also give back. Alumni gifts help us continue the work that you start here on campus. To improve life is our shared challenge. What role are you playing: locally, nationally and
                            internationally? Share your stories with us. Let’s tell the world about the University of
                            Guelph together. Over 24,000 students learn at the University of Guelph every year. More than 800 faculty
                            teach here every year. More than 1,800 research projects to improve life in a variety of
                            capacities are currently underway. Yet what the numbers don’t capture is how we live while we're here and after we leave. Our
                            students, faculty and staff are engaged. They are passionate about being here. We are
                            equally passionate about educating the whole person to shape better citizens of the world.
                         That has been our focus for over 150 years: life, living, always improving. The University of Guelph resides on the treaty lands and territory of the Mississaugas of the
                            Credit. We recognize that today this gathering place is home to many First Nations, Inuit
                            and Métis peoples and acknowledging them reminds us of our collective responsibility to the
                            land where we learn and work. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 When you become a U of G staff or faculty member, you join a community of dedicated people
                            whose abilities, skills and actions provide essential support for the teaching and research
                            activities for which the University is nationally recognized. Join our community and share
                            our purpose – to Improve Life in a capacity that fits your skills and aspirations. When you choose the University of Guelph, you join a community of learners who will shape our world's collective
        future. Our purpose is to Improve Life and there are many ways to join us. U of G offers more than 80 undergrad programs, more than 100 graduate and post-doctoral study programs, co-op
        education in a wide variety of disciplines, support for international students, diploma programs and access to a
        unique form of higher education at the University of Guelph-Humber. We’ll help you make the choices – we’ll help you explore the possibilities. Our community is tailored for
        students, and that difference is noticeable from the first moment you get in touch. Most of our students and graduates say their love affair with the University of Guelph started the moment they
        visited our campus. Join us for a campus tour that includes residence, learning environments, living and dining
        options, athletics and recreation and more. Take the tour – prepare to explore your future. The University of Guelph Admissions team is ready to guide your application process right from the start. We’re
        here to help answer questions regarding admissions requirements, financing your education, special services and
        support for students with unique needs and choosing programs. Find everything you need to know about the University of Guelph using the search bar here. Or for quick
        reference, access answers to the most frequently asked questions by scanning the list below. 