Retro Gaming ON SALE Retro Game Consoles Retro Gaming Accessories Retro Games In recent years, playing classic blasts from the past—aka retro gaming—has seen a huge rise in popularity. There’s  good reason too! Kids who gamed in the 80s and 90s are now adults and going back to relive your favourite childhood games is nothing short of amazing!  Retro gaming is a great way for families to introduce their children to the classic games of yesteryear. There are so many retro games that are rich and full of history. There are thousands of retro games just waiting for you to rediscover or discover for the first time with your family.  There are many choices when it comes to  . Plug and play retro consoles allow you to connect the console to your TV and come pre-loaded with some of the systems most notable games. For example, the C64 mini console is a micro-sized version of the world’s best-selling home computer—the Commodore 64. The console comes with 20 games pre-load and with a firmware update from the manufacture you can load your own c64 games on to it. Another example is Sony’s PlayStation Classic. It comes loaded with 20 games. Just plug it in and hook it up to your TV’s HDMI port and you are ready for fun.  There are also retro consoles that let you play using legacy game cartridges. This is a fantastic way for retro game collectors to enjoy these classic games. For example, the Retro-Bit 3-in1 Home System allows you to play SNES, NES and Sega Genesis games all in one machine! It comes with two controllers but also has six controller ports so that you can plug in original or third-party controllers.  Wireless controllers weren’t always the norm in gaming. As such, many retro game consoles come with exact wired replica controllers. And, many times the controller cords are simply not long enough. Fortunately, there are many   available at Best Buy Canada you can get to complement your retro gaming experience.  Controller extension cables, to extra controllers, to travel cases, to wireless controllers, to video cables and even AC adaptors—we’ve got you covered.  Did you know that Best Buy Canada sells retro games? If you like to  , make sure to check out our retro games section. We’ve got games for the SNES, GameCube, Gameboy Color, Gameboy Advance, PlayStation, PlayStation 2, Xbox and Sega Dreamcast!  Stock is always changing so make sure to visit our retro games section on a frequent basis. You never know what you might find!    In recent years, playing classic blasts from the past—aka retro gaming—has seen a huge rise in popularity. There’s  good reason too! Kids who gamed in the 80s and 90s are now adults and going back to relive your favourite childhood games is nothing short of amazing!  Retro gaming is a great way for families to introduce their children to the classic games of yesteryear. There are so many retro games that are rich and full of history. There are thousands of retro games just waiting for you to rediscover or discover for the first time with your family.  There are many choices when it comes to  . Plug and play retro consoles allow you to connect the console to your TV and come pre-loaded with some of the systems most notable games. For example, the C64 mini console is a micro-sized version of the world’s best-selling home computer—the Commodore 64. The console comes with 20 games pre-load and with a firmware update from the manufacture you can load your own c64 games on to it. Another example is Sony’s PlayStation Classic. It comes loaded with 20 games. Just plug it in and hook it up to your TV’s HDMI port and you are ready for fun.  There are also retro consoles that let you play using legacy game cartridges. This is a fantastic way for retro game collectors to enjoy these classic games. For example, the Retro-Bit 3-in1 Home System allows you to play SNES, NES and Sega Genesis games all in one machine! It comes with two controllers but also has six controller ports so that you can plug in original or third-party controllers.  Wireless controllers weren’t always the norm in gaming. As such, many retro game consoles come with exact wired replica controllers. And, many times the controller cords are simply not long enough. Fortunately, there are many   available at Best Buy Canada you can get to complement your retro gaming experience.  Controller extension cables, to extra controllers, to travel cases, to wireless controllers, to video cables and even AC adaptors—we’ve got you covered.  Did you know that Best Buy Canada sells retro games? If you like to  , make sure to check out our retro games section. We’ve got games for the SNES, GameCube, Gameboy Color, Gameboy Advance, PlayStation, PlayStation 2, Xbox and Sega Dreamcast!  Stock is always changing so make sure to visit our retro games section on a frequent basis. You never know what you might find!    © Best Buy Canada Ltd. 8800 Glenlyon Parkway, Burnaby, BC V5J 5K3 