, also known as   and  , is the playing or collecting of older  ,  , and/or   video games in contemporary times. Usually, retrogaming is based upon systems that are obsolete or discontinued. It is typically put into practice for the purpose of nostalgia, preservation or the need to achieve authenticity. 
 Retrogaming has three main activities; vintage retrogaming, retrogaming emulation, and ported retrogaming. Vintage retrogaming includes games that are played on the original hardware.   involves newer systems simulating old gaming systems, while ported retrogaming allows games to be played on modern hardware via   or compilations. Additionally, the term could apply to a newer game, but with features similar to those of older games, such as a "retro  " which features turn-based combat and an isometric camera perspective.
 Participants in the hobby are sometimes known as retrogamers in the United Kingdom, while the terms "classic gamers" or "old school gamers" are more prevalent in the United States. Similarly, the games are known as retrogames, classic games, or old school games. 
 Retrogaming has existed since the early years of the video game industry, but was popularized with the popularity of the Internet and emulation technology.  It is argued that the main reasons players are drawn to retrogames are nostalgia for different eras,  the idea that older games are more innovative and original,  and the simplicity of the games that requires less hours of gameplay.
 Retrogaming and   have been described as   activity and as aspects of the  . 
 The games and systems can be anything not in the current generation.  Retro games can include   as well as   for   platforms.   are also popular, and were frequently attributed to individual programmers. The distinction between what is considered retro and modern is heavily debated, but it usually coincides with either the shift from 2D to 3D games (making the fourth gen the last retro generation, and the fifth being the first modern),  the turn of the millennium and the increase in online gaming (making the fifth gen the last retro generation, and the sixth being the first modern), or the switch from RCA to HDMI cables for video and sound transfer (making the sixth gen the last retro generation, and the seventh being the first modern). Some games are played on the original hardware; others are played through  . Some retro games can still be played online using just the internet browser via DOS emulation.  In some cases, entirely new versions of the games are designed, or  . As well as playing games, a subculture of retrogaming has grown up around the  .
 Reasons that people use concerning playing video games on original hardware include:
 Without excessive modification, modern displays cannot present retro games properly, typically leading to distorted picture and sound quality. This is why many gamers resort to purchasing older   for the hobby. Other reasons may include that some games take advantage of the image stretching to create wider and more detailed displays, such as   or  .
 Prior to digital sound, older game systems would replicate different tones and notes based on a specific selection of chips. Newer displays may have trouble replicating these sounds exactly. 
 The ability to play certain games on their original hardware may vary depending on the console and the applicable region. Variations due to region are also known as  .
 In the wake of increasing nostalgia and the success of retro-compilations in the fifth, sixth, and seventh generations of consoles, retrogaming has become a   in modern games, as well. Modern retrogames impose limitations on color palette, resolution, and memory well below the actual limits of the hardware in order to mimic the look of older hardware. These may be based on a general concept of retro, as with  , or an attempt to imitate a specific piece of hardware, as with   and its   color palette.
 This concept, known as Deliberate Retro  and NosCon,  began to gain traction thanks in part to the independent gaming scene,  where the short development time was attractive and commercial viability was not a concern. Major publishers have embraced modern retrogaming with releases such as  , an attempt to mimic NES hardware;  , a compilation of new games on faux-NES hardware; and Sega's   remake, which uses emulated   hardware running on   to create a 16-bit reimagining of the 8-bit original.
 Vintage retrogaming involves players collecting the original hardware, cartridges, and discs the video games were originally released on.  The hardware collected includes arcade systems, old home consoles, and their cartridges and discs. Some of these collectables can be fairly expensive and hard to find, limiting the access to these old games.  The vast majority, however, sell for much less than their retail price. 
 The popularity of vintage retrogaming has led to the circulation of pirated copies of retro games, which are generally considered to lack the collector value of the original cartridges and discs. 
 Retrogaming emulation involves older gaming systems being emulated on new hardware. It bypasses the need to collect old consoles and original games. ROMs, read only memory files, are taken directly from the original cartridge or disc from third parties. They are then typically put online through file sharing sites and played via emulators on modern hardware.  They are also often sold as re-releases, typically in compilations containing multiple games running on emulation software.  Since emulation is a more accessible way to take part in retrogaming, it helped to popularize and expand on the hobby. 
 Ported retrogaming involves old games being played on new systems, just as emulation. It differs from emulation because the games are rewritten for the new system and don't use the original ROM files.  Ported games are available through official collections, console-based downloads, and  .  Ported retrogaming is comparatively rare, since emulation is a much easier and more accurate method of running retro games on modern hardware.
 Modern retrogaming may sometimes be more broadly applied to games that feature retro-style designs and reimaginings with more modern graphics. These enhanced   include  ,  ,  ,  . Some are based directly upon the enhanced emulation of original games, as with Nintendo's  .
 When remakes are created by an individual or a group of enthusiasts without commercial motivation, such games sometimes are also called  . These are often motivated by the phenomenon of  , which is the discontinuation of sales and support by the original producers. Examples of   remakes are  ,  , and  .
 The nostalgia-based revival of older game styles has also been accompanied by the development of the modern   of game music. Chiptunes are characterized by severe limitations of sound imposed by the author's self-restriction to using only the original sound chips from 8-bit or 16-bit games. These compositions are featured in many retro-style modern games and are popular in the  .
 
With the new possibility of the   in mid-2000 the commercial distribution of old classical game titles became feasible again as deployment and storage costs dropped significantly:  A digital distributor specialized in bringing old games out of abandonware is   (formerly called  ) who started 2008 to search for copyright holders of classic games to re-release them legally and  -free. 
 Notable online platforms for classic video game re-releases include Nintendo's   and Sony's  .
 Mobile application developers have been purchasing the rights and licensing to re-release vintage arcade games on iOS and Android operating systems. Some publishers are creating spinoffs to their classic games, keeping the core gameplay while adding new features, levels, and styles of play.
  have been released or licensed by companies such as  , Sega, and  . These systems include stand-alone game libraries and plug directly into the user's television. 
 The video game industry has an active audience, including the retrogaming sector. The retrogaming community has both online and physical spaces where retrogames are discussed, collected, and played. 
 There are several websites and online forums devoted to both retrogaming and video games in general. The content on these online platforms typically includes reviews of older games, interviews with developers, fan-made content, game walkthroughs, and message boards for discussions.  Many gameplay videos posted online feature attempts at breaking   or   records.
 The competitive   traces its legacy from old-school arcades.  Some   have continued to receive arcade releases after the end of the arcade era.   Face-to-face competition of   has been featured in the  . 
 There are several events that retrogamers can take part in. Exhibits typically include vendors, retrogames available to play, tournaments, costumes, and live music, such as the Vancouver Retro Gaming Expo, run by Phase 3 events. This event has been occurring annually since March 17, 2012. 
 Retrogaming is recognized by   worldwide.  For example, the   arcade museum of  ,   was founded in 2002  and the   was founded in 1997.  Some classical art museums bear a video gaming retrospective, as with 2012's   exhibition titled   or as part of the   "Applied Design" exhibition in 2013.  Starting in 2015,   adds games annually to the  . In 2016, the first museum dedicated solely to the history of the videogame industry, The  , was opened in Frisco, Texas.
 Though many   titles are available for free download on third-party websites, the duration of copyright on creative works in most countries is far longer than the era of home computing.
 Emulators are typically created by third parties, and the software they run is often taken directly from the original games and put online for free download.  While it is completely legal for anyone to create an emulator for any hardware, unauthorized distribution of the code for a retro game is an infringement of the game's copyright.  Some companies have made public statements regarding the issues, such as Nintendo, stating that "the introduction of emulators created to play illegally copied Nintendo software represents the greatest threat to date in the intellectual property rights of video game developers".  However, video game developers and publishers typically turn a blind eye to emulation.  One reason for this is that at any given time, most of the games illegally distributed for emulation are not presently being sold by the company which owns the game, and so the damages the company would collect in the event of a successful lawsuit would most likely be negligible. 
 