Adults can weigh up to  They mainly feed on large mammals such as  ,  ,   and  . They   until they are close enough to pounce – then they kill their victim with a bite to the neck or back of the head. Ouch! Unlike most members of the cat family, they like water and often  . SO when they want to be heard, you’ll know about it, gang! That’s right – they may be big and heavy, but tigers are by no means slow movers! Fossil remains of tigers found in parts of China are believed to be  . Yikes! Since every tiger has their own pattern on their fur,  ! Sadly,   have put populations at risk, and today their range has been reduced to around  . That’s why we need to do all we can to protect these beautiful beasts! While you wait for it to be checked and approved why not to add
                a pre-selected message and a cool badge
                 cool I already knew these facts wow COOL BRO WOW Cool Kiddle Facts are so cool! Grrrrrr tigers are awsome Love it so much LOVE IT good That didnt give much info cool This app i amazing ! Love!!!!! WOW this is good info thats awesome I like tigers I have a tiger stuffed animal Cool baby Can you do more? I love it! Nice I like it! This is cool LOL! LOL! cool great Thanks bord not cool awesome! nice 10 Roarsome Facts Cool my middle name is tiger cool I LOVE TIGERS hiya lets save the tigers and .p.s i love your amazing facts about these beautiful animals A baby tiger because they are cuddly Wow cool I love tigers, they are the best! Thanks for the wonderful facts! Ten tiger facts Animal planet action i like how i am learning these facts thanks to you! I love tigers. My favorite breed, the White Bengal tiger, is one of the most endangered. Keep working hard to save the tigers! Love you guys! love from Africa❤️ Amazing .... this is very helpful I'm 4 years old and doing a project on tiger for my class when school starts again why dose this happen and what are the problems you need to make it more true it is not realistic you need to tell the kids the truth I WILL KEEP DOING THIS love it National animal of India Tigers are one of the cutest I like tigers the most its so proooooooooo and goooooood! i love tigers they are cute I loved these facts they were absolutely tigerific! this tiger is our national so i like this animal nice Like tigers This helped me alot Thanks nice information for all people about Tigers I love big cats so much tigers are my favourite ones This really helped me with my homework Roarsme tigers King of animals cool!!!!!! Cool big cat It's amazing I love it __ I absolutely love tigers- I think they are amazing. TOTALLY ROARSOME! get 1000 likes because this is awesome Thanks! helped me a lot with homework awesome!!!!!!! Tiger cubs are sooooo cute!!!! Tigers Are My 2nd Favorite Animal After looking at all these facts! I LOVE TIGERS I LOVE THESE FACTS sooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooocoooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooll!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! coooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooll Amazing  bad so interesting coooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooolllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! it was cool how they were 100 years ago So cool I love your web site because it has a lot of facts and I think you put a lot of effort in it your website is a amizing you put allot of effort to your wesite really cool guys u guys r awesome best! so much cool info! Amazing :) awsome like! this website is roarsome so infomative that facts arent that amazing. cool facts      Wow cool Cool COOL! really cool games this is a madting sadting bredrin cool facts about tigers cool that is the pest to help me Fun
We get to lurn Cool 
Awesome
Swage This was not useful The LOVE IT!!!!! lol no 1 lol awesome Tigers are awesome Cool- tigers are great! Great I loooooooovvvvvvvvveeeeeeee tigerssss cool stuff awsome I like this website, it roarsome! Super sweet and cool! Awsome i love the information. SO COOL I love tigers thay are awesome VMCHCVC,XHTESKSSREHRRYSWEKUY ILLT cool!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! cool facts cool Meh COOL WOW LOL!!! wassup i love tigers Wow epic Love national geographic to bits.
I am number one fan. hhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii hi i love tigers!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
by the awesome poopling 
poopling out :) so cool m8 cool i sooo love tigers they are my favorite animal.so sad 3 subspecies are extinct. lets save the rest though. i love animals wassup if you love tigers this is the website
LOVE U!!!!! I like your fantastic facts hi Tigers are big animals if see dfrt WE CAN SAVE THEM NO MATTER WHAT!!!!!!!!!! I used these facts for my class and my teacher loved my report a lot! Loooove tigers need to save them!!! my real name is tiger thats what my older brother named me that .
i love tigers and lions my school project is on tigers and lions I Love Lions i like your words and adjectives wicked I love tigers thank you Cool! I love tigers tf is this tigers are the best!!! make some more of these!!! God save the  tiger  we looked on this website at school. I kind of feel sorry for them because they are endangered  Awesome! I love tigers... thank you I LOOOOOOVE TIGERS AND LOVE THIS oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooohhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaabbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy tigers are my favorite animals and they totally rule so tigers have really been around for 2 million years thats COOL.
I wish that every single subspecies of tiger was still alive that includes the Tasmanian tiger. :) Sure it is pretty cool Tigers are cute!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! hope we can save them((( Ugly I love snakes they are very big and small. I know how yall feel about them and i respect that info stop you facts are cool ersome L.OL. hi so cute thanks for the facts I love your web so much thank you for the cool facts!I love you cool facts about tigers #babby wont you come my way Mmmmmmmmmmmmmoooooooooooooommmmmmmmmmmm owls and bunnys are cool I love this website it is so amazing helpfull Coooool It is cooooooooooooool thats very helpful Lol Wow Tigers are so cool  Y LOVE THIS #SAVETHETIGERSANDSPREADTHELOVEONTHETIGERSLIKEPEANUTBUTTERONTOAST hi people #spreadthetigerlove Hi there,

This has really helped me for my geography homework Good website 
Well done This is amazing sddddd I think tiegs are sooqer cool! Thats shell tastic! This website sucks wow #roar I love tigers!!! these facts are so cool!! h0fI9h pretty helpful material, overall I feel this is worthy of a bookmark, thanks I like the lines mane I LIKE THE FACTS BECAUSE  I WROTE A FACT PAGE Jiggle puff Sooooo poooooooooooo wow it is so good MAN IT WAS AWSOME AND I LOVE IT cool.a? love your sity love your sit Gdgfgegfg I loved  your website.Your website helped me with my homework.It is awsome. thx for the info. great stuff. helped in my sis homework. very helpful. thx to all. i love tigers and i love big cats! So no wonder i found this amazing website fab dont you think? AWESOME!!!!!!! AWSOME. using website 4 a project. awesome!!!!!!!!!!!!! YOU ARE AMAZING I LOVE YOUR WEBSITE awsome, cute Epic I love animals! This website is awesome. Its also really helpful for school projects on animals. i love it very much wow! cool i love tigers!!  I like tiger VERY MUCH cool! awesome cool I like this web thx for the facts. Really great stuff. thx for helping me with my homework WE ALL MUST LOVE TIGERS i like tigers thanks! I love Tigers This Has Amazing  Facts #savetigers i love tigers Awsome thanks Hey thx for helping me with my report national geographic! Awesome Very useful facts! its an amazing fact so cool Epic! Lots of people kill tigers for Chinese medicine. This is cruel! #STOPKILLINGTIGERS! save these animals Nice facts Save the tiger I love tigers Helpful for homework I love tiger they are one of my top three animals thanks for the facts Thats cool!I wish I was a tiger Cool I LUV TIGERS!!! I love TIGERS Tigers are so awesome!!!  :-D A cool animal I LOVE TIGERS!! Really Cool It helped me with my animal homework BTW I have seen 3 tigers i love  tigers Interesting facts so adorable WOW WOW WOW I love tiger facts and reading about how we can protect them. This information was really interesting and helpful. Wow I dont know that tigers are the biggest cat in the world!!!!? i Love tigers great lol tigers cool LOVE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I love tigers i love tiger it is my favourite animal yay cool tiger i love narmol and white tiger awesome website!!! | loved it and it really helped me with my homework also I really enjoyed reading the weird but interesting part. 

by avalon! helped me alot with my school project I love tigers  this is soooooo COOL!!! I loved it had good facts Those were awesome you should really look at them ! Can you put facts about The Black Tiger these facts are awesome Big cats are awesome and ferce especially tigers WHOOP WHOOP !! Not joking I love this ssooo muh! Its my 14th birthday soon and my mom wants me to throw a huge party but all I want to do is sit home and read these juicy facts! Thats my idea of a PAR-TAY! You know this is the best thing ever I love Tigres so much I love tigers This is awsome lions are just sooo adorable if i could be any animal it would definetly be tiger, for sure!!!!! Im definetly going to tell my friends all about this website! Thanks so much, i love tigers, i have a cuddly toy tiger, but i wish it was real. big cats are the best I LOVE TIGERS AND BIG CATS!!!! =) big cats are EPIC!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Wow! Iv looked at about 1 million facts about tigers but just then 10 (10!) of these were better and more understandable than any other facts I have found ! Thanks so much for making the facts clear , easy to understand and fun to read!
                                       THANKYOU!
                                                              I heart tigers!! the other day I saw a pic of a tiger and I screamed cuz I was super pumped!!!!!!!!!!!<3 ily tigs Thanks for the really useful facts! We are making a website about tigers and this really helped :-) AWESOME Cool! I love tigers . They are one of my favorite animals. Epicly cool facts and than you to national geographic for always trying to help these animals!!!!!!!!      (:  (: (: (: thanks for helping me with my homework 10 facts! cool fact about  tigers Love tigers ð (Aaww), how cute!!!!! i love wild animals , and i love eny animal thats why ive got a puppy and im going to get fish and a guinea pig !!!!!! how sweet  , how exsiting!!!!!! I LOVE tigers, especially amur tigers! They have fur about 10cm thick! So fluffy! TIGERS ARE THE BEST! Cool information about tigers wow i got all my facts about tigers I LOVE BIG CATS kool cat kool cat Cool AND Awesome Wow! cool facts sooo cute god made so good and cute thing. earth is a amazing place. you are so cool this website is awesome because it has interesting facts Tigers are cute nice scary .They are my favourite animal tiger cubs are cool this thing is cool i used it as my project and it is really helpful I LOVE TIGERS This is great! cool web. u will love it cooool! i like the facts The facts are cool I love  this. :3 thank you for this info This was a great article. I loved the facts.This helped me finish a really cool project. This sie cool!! great fact about tigers love the animals and facts Great facts about tigers, love the pictures and interestingly written going on here is cool cool website I love it cool thanks thankyou wow extre ordnery thanks crazzy!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I love this website crazzy!!!!!!!! I love this website thanks really good Thanks for these facts. They helped me write about tigers!!! thank you Thank you for these interesting facts Thank you for these interesting facts Cool these facts helped me finsh a project Cool facts used for quiz at party it is cool Cool facts I love to look this website is great I love tigers wow Wow thanks 4 that big cats rule=) Cool!!! I Love your video! :-D cool web sight I thought your report was great.I like how you put related things  next to it so we would not have to go to a whole different site. I also like how you put videos so we could understand it better. I love  giraffes and tigers Great website This helped me a lot. that is awesome can you get some more pics I like this web site and turtles Cool I love it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! So cool these facts are really interesting good work Cooooool information!!!!!!!!! Type whatever you want to search 
                You’re leaving     to visit another website!
             
                Ask a parent or guardian to check it out first and remember to stay safe online.
             