This site uses cookies to enhance your experience. By using our website you consent to our use of cookies.         Book tickets  Group Packages  
                        Join the animals for a summer evening with a difference!
                     Edinburgh Zoo After Hours Why not treat your self or a friend to one of our keeper experiences? How to book  Sponsorship Opportunities  Corporate Support  It’s impossible to overstate the impact of the Covid-19 closure on Edinburgh Zoo. It cut off 90% of the funds needed by our dedicated keepers and vets to care for thousands of animals. If you can, please consider a donation to support our survival fund.  We would like to say thank you to IndigoVision for their generous support of our Tiger Tracks enclosure. Without their expertise we would not have been able to provide this incredible 24 hour live view of the tigers. If you would like to find out more about IndigoVision and their Intelligent Video Solutions please visit  .   We would also like to say thank you to Camvista who provide their expert video streaming services for all of our webcams. We have recently been informed by one of our suppliers about a cyber-attack which has affected many organisations and charities worldwide, including RZSS. These last few months has shown how much people love Edinburgh Zoo and Highland Wildlife Park and today we launch our survival fund to help ensure we can realise shared aspirations for generations to come and play our essential role in protecting our beautiful planet. The Royal Zoological Society of Scotland has announced the return of Edinburgh Zoo’s After Hours events this summer, following its reopening to the public last week. Edinburgh Zoo and the Highland Wildlife Park are owned by The Royal Zoological Society of Scotland. Registered charity number: SC004064 
            Support Edinburgh Zoo's Survival Fund
         The survival of endangered animals depends on the survival of your zoo. Donations from thousands of people like you have kept our animals well fed and safe while we were closed and had no visitor income. We were grateful for every gift during those challenging times. Every month, we need thousands of pounds just to feed and care for the animals you love. If you can, please help your zoo survive long into the future by giving a donation today.  