Login to your WWF-Canada supporter centre. To help tiger populations recover, WWF is working to improve tiger habitat, reduce human-tiger conflict and engage local communities. The tiger (Panthera tigris) is one of the world’s most recognizable animals, intimately connected with strength and untamed nature. A symbol of nature’s wild places, significant in faiths and folktales of almost all civilizations, tigers inspire millions of people around the globe, from the monasteries in Bhutan to the catwalks of Milan. Sadly, tigers are on the brink of extinction. Just over a century ago, 100,000 wild tigers roamed across Asia. Today, fewer than 3,900 live in a mere four per cent of their historic range. The largest tiger population can now be found in India, home to half of all remaining wild tigers. Much of this decline has occurred in the past decade. Endangered  A wildlife species facing imminent extirpation or extinction. 100 – 300 kg 2 - 3 metres Approximately 3,900 individuals Tropical, subtropical and temperate regions of 11 countries in Asia A tiger's roar can be heard as far as 3 kilometres. These beautiful, powerful cats inhabit diverse landscapes, from rainforests to grasslands, savannahs to mangrove forests and high-elevation habitats, so they play an important role in many ecosystems that supply nature and people with water, food and room to roam. As top predators in the food chain, tigers help keep their habitats balanced by preying on other animals, mainly herbivores. Too many herbivores would lead to overgrazing and degradation of the ecosystem. Tigers also drive economies. Where tigers exist, tourists go. And where tourists go, money can be made by communities with few alternatives for income. Tiger conservation projects help provide alternative livelihoods for rural communities. To safeguard tigers, we need to protect large swaths of forest across Asia where they live. By protecting these biologically diverse places, we can also preserve many other endangered species that live there. And, forests protected for tigers are known to store more carbon than other habitat types, helping to mitigate climate change. The most immediate threat to wild tigers is poaching. Their body parts are in relentless demand for traditional medicine and are status symbols within some Asian cultures. Resources for guarding protected areas where tigers live are usually limited. People and tigers increasingly compete for space. Tigers have lost 93 per cent of their historical range due to human activity and development. As forests shrink and prey becomes scarce, tigers are forced to hunt domestic livestock, which many local communities depend on for their livelihoods. In retaliation, tigers are killed or captured. These “conflict tigers” are commonly sold on the black market. We can’t lose our tigers. Your support makes a big difference towards our work to help recover tiger populations.       Help protect threatened species and their habitats. WWF is collecting postal codes so we can send you news and invitations most relevant to your area. © All photos, graphics and images on this site remain the copyright of WWF, unless otherwise noted, and should not be downloaded without prior permission. © 2020 WWF-Canada; © 1986 Panda symbol WWF-World Wide Fund For Nature (also known as World Wildlife Fund); ® “WWF” and “living planet” are WWF Registered Trademarks. Charitable Registration Number #119304954 RR 0001 