We use cookies to analyse how visitors use our website and to help us provide the best possible experience for users.
                View our   for more information Sign up to get the latest WWF news delivered straight to your inbox 
                    We’ll keep your personal details safe and won’t share with them with any other organisations for their marketing purposes. For full details see our  .
                   
 There are only around 3,900 tigers in the wild. With the support of Tiger Protectors around the world, they are beginning to make a comeback. 
 
                                Affected by:
                                                                    Illegal wildlife trade
                                    ,                                                                    Human wildlife conflict
                                    ,                                                                    Habitat loss and fragmentation
                                                                                                 The beautiful, awe-inspiring tiger is one of our planet’s most iconic animals. But here’s the shocking truth. Wild tiger numbers dropped by more than 95% since the beginning of the 20th century. Now, for the first time in conservation history, their numbers are on the increase. We aim to help double the number of wild tigers to over 6,000 by 2022 – the next Chinese year of the tiger. In recent years, conservation work and the commitment of various governments has halted the decline in global tiger numbers. But there’s a lot more work to do. We’re working closely with governments and community groups across Asia – and your support is crucial, as always. Will you join us and help protect this amazing wild cat? "I am proud to be engaged in supporting our work on tigers, at such an unprecedented and exciting time in history where wild tiger numbers are starting to increase globally. In my lifetime, tiger populations declined, but are now on the up. That’s quite incredible. However, the threats remain, and we need to do all we can to help achieve the very ambitious goal of doubling the number of tigers in the wild by 2022 – a goal which was set in 2010 when the wild tiger population was at an all-time low." 
 Tigers used to roam across most of Asia, but now they’re restricted to just 7% of their original range, in isolated forests and grasslands across 13 countries. 
 As top predators, tigers help to keep their environment healthy. It’s the way things naturally work in the wild – the predators prey on other animals, in this case herbivores (plant-eaters) such as deer. But without enough tigers to eat them, herbivores can overgraze and damage the land, disrupting the balance of the local environment.  Local people also depend on a healthy environment for food, water and lots of other resources. By helping protect tigers we’re also helping look after the places where they live, which is good for all the people and wildlife sharing that environment. 
    
                                “Tigers are powerful, they are beautiful, they are perfect… and they can coexist with humans.”

Pavel Fomenko is a Tiger Protector in Russia. He knows the forests of the Russian Far East like the back of his hand, and uses this knowledge to help protect the endangered Amur tiger. 

It’s a lonely and dangerous job. Pavel has been known to spend 40 days in a row alone in the wilderness, where temperatures drop well below -30C in winter months. 

Pavel is a passionate and talented conservationist . His work involves supporting a complex system of tiger protection involving tracking poachers, performing forensics on animal remains and monitoring tiger numbers in the Russian Far East. Tiger Protectors like Pavel are a key part of the efforts that have seen wild tiger numbers begin to rise globally. 

                             
                                “My parents and husband are my tower of strength. They think my job is very special and unique for a woman, but at the same time they’re worried sick about my safety when I’m in the field.”

Singye Wangmo is one of only a few female forestry officers working in Bhutan. Her role requires her to leave her husband, parents and pets at home while she spends weeks working in the field protecting around 30 wild tigers and other wildlife that live in Bhutan’s Royal Manas National Park.

Leading a team of 30 rangers, Singye’s job involves the monitoring of tigers through camera traps, 
conducting surveys on foot and patrolling known poaching hotspots. Poaching groups often venture in to the park, but Singye is determined to continue the work she has been doing for 3 years: “The fight to save tigers is our collective responsibility. Human beings are the answer to saving tigers. You and I are the answer.”

                             
                                “We’re not going to lose tigers. Let’s stay positive.”

Ollie, tiger protector and committed conservationist, devotes his free time and energy to raising funds to protect tigers. Ollie first ran for charity in 2013, when he and his fiancé raised £600 for tigers by running the Edinburgh Rock ‘n’ Roll half marathon. 

Last year he covered over 500 miles running both the London and Paris marathons, and completing a Richmond Park duathlon. This served as perfect training for the Royal Parks Foundation half marathon, in which he donned a tiger onesie and raised £350.

                             
 
                            In the UK, some trade of elephant ivory is still legal. Likewise, our new report on wildlife crime showed 174 cases of inconsistent and lenient sentences for wildlife trade offences. We are using our skills, expertise and resources to stop the illegal wildlife trade&nbsp;by expanding the scope and impact of our work.&nbsp;

                         
                            Forest certification is a system of inspecting and tracking timber, paper pulp and other forest products to make sure they’ve been harvested according to a strict set of guidelines.

                         
                            Tomorrow’s Tigers is a major new fundraising project, devised and curated by Artwise, featuring specially commissioned, limited edition art rugs by 11 internationally-renowned artists.

                         Sign up to be kept informed about our conservation work and how you can help such as fundraising, campaigning and events. You can unsubscribe at any time. 