Black Lives Matter. |  Learn the basics of the world's fastest growing and most popular programming language used by software engineers, analysts, data scientists, and machine learning engineers alike. Python is a general-purpose, versatile and popular programming language. It’s great as a first language because it is concise and easy to read, and it is also a good language to have in any programmer’s stack as it can be used for everything from web development to software development and scientific applications. This course is a great introduction to both fundamental programming concepts and the Python programming language. By the end, you’ll be comfortable programming in Python and taking your skills off the Codecademy platform and onto your own computer. Join people who have taken this course Portfolio projects that showcase your new skills It's time to build fluency in Python fundamentals. In this next Pro Project, we're going to practice syntax in Python so you can hone your skills and feel confident taking them to the real world.
Why? You've done a great job so far on your quest to learn Python. Let's build something to solidify your newfound knowledge.
What's next? Calculator, tipping, more Python. You got this!  It's time to build fluency in Python fundamentals. In this next Pro Project, we're going to practice inputs and print in Python so you can hone your skills and feel confident taking them to the real world.
Why? Being able to take inputs and print results is a key part of programming.
What's next? Mad Libs, user inputs, more Python. You got this!  It's time to build fluency in Python fundamentals. In this next Pro Project, we're going to practice functions and conditionals in Python so you can hone your skills and feel confident taking them to the real world.
Why? Ever wanted to automate your math homework? Time to build something in Python that does just that.
What's next? Shapes, math, more Python. You got this! Stress-test your knowledge with quizzes that help commit syntax to memory 