Learn to Program and Analyze Data with Python. Develop programs to gather, clean, analyze, and visualize data. Offered By Install Python and write your first program Describe the basics of the Python programming language Use variables to store, retrieve and calculate information Utilize core programming tools such as functions and loops No prior experience required. No prior experience required. This course aims to teach everyone the basics of programming computers using Python. We cover the basics of how one constructs a program from a series of simple instructions in Python.  The course has no pre-requisites and avoids all but the simplest mathematics. Anyone with moderate computer experience should be able to master the materials in this course. This course will cover Chapters 1-5 of the textbook “Python for Everybody”.  Once a student completes this course, they will be ready to take more advanced programming courses. This course covers Python 3. This course will introduce the core data structures of the Python programming language. We will move past the basics of procedural programming and explore how we can use the Python built-in data structures such as lists, dictionaries, and tuples to perform increasingly complex data analysis. This course will cover Chapters 6-10 of the textbook “Python for Everybody”.  This course covers Python 3. This course will show how one can treat the Internet as a source of data.  We will scrape, parse, and read web data as well as access data using web APIs.  We will work with HTML, XML, and JSON data formats in Python.  This course will cover Chapters 11-13 of the textbook “Python for Everybody”. To succeed in this course, you should be familiar with the material covered in Chapters 1-10 of the textbook and the first two courses in this specialization.  These topics include variables and expressions, conditional execution (loops, branching, and try/except), functions, Python data structures (strings, lists, dictionaries, and tuples), and manipulating files.  This course covers Python 3. This course will introduce students to the basics of the Structured Query Language (SQL) as well as basic database design for storing data as part of a multi-step data gathering, analysis, and processing effort.  The course will use SQLite3 as its database.  We will also build web crawlers and multi-step data gathering and visualization processes.  We will use the D3.js library to do basic data visualization.  This course will cover Chapters 14-15 of the book “Python for Everybody”. To succeed in this course, you should be familiar with the material covered in Chapters 1-13 of the textbook and the first three courses in this specialization. This course covers Python 3. The mission of the University of Michigan is to serve the people of Michigan and the world through preeminence in creating, communicating, preserving and applying knowledge, art, and academic values, and in developing leaders and citizens who will challenge the present and enrich the future. What is the refund policy? If you subscribed, you get a 7-day free trial during which you can cancel at no penalty. After that, we don’t give refunds, but you can cancel your subscription at any time.  . Can I just enroll in a single course? Yes! To get started, click the course card that interests you and enroll. You can enroll and complete the course to earn a shareable certificate, or you can audit it to view the course materials for free. When you subscribe to a course that is part of a Specialization, you’re automatically subscribed to the full Specialization. Visit your learner dashboard to track your progress. Is financial aid available? Yes, Coursera provides financial aid to learners who cannot afford the fee. Apply for it by clicking on the Financial Aid link beneath the "Enroll" button on the left. You'll be prompted to complete an application and will be notified if you are approved. You'll need to complete this step for each course in the Specialization, including the Capstone Project.  . Can I take the course for free? When you enroll in the course, you get access to all of the courses in the Specialization, and you earn a certificate when you complete the work. If you only want to read and view the course content, you can audit the course for free. If you cannot afford the fee,  . Is this course really 100% online? Do I need to attend any classes in person? This course is completely online, so there’s no need to show up to a classroom in person. You can access your lectures, readings and assignments anytime and anywhere via the web or your mobile device. Will I earn university credit for completing the Specialization? This Specialization doesn't carry university credit, but some universities may choose to accept Specialization Certificates for credit. Check with your institution to learn more. How long does it take to complete the Python for Everybody Specialization? Time to completion can vary based on your schedule and experience level, but most learners are able to complete the Specialization in about 8 months. How often is each course in the Specialization offered? Each course in the Specialization is offered on a regular schedule, with sessions starting about once per month. If you don't complete a course on the first try, you can easily transfer to the next session, and your completed work and grades will carry over.  The Capstone Project will be offered three times per year. What background knowledge is necessary? This Specialization is designed to serve as an on-ramp for programming, and has no pre-requisites.  The pace of the first two courses is aimed at those with no programming experience at all. What are the payment options? You can pay for the entire Specialization upfront, or pay individually for each course as you progress. Financial aid is available for learners who qualify. Do I need to take the courses in a specific order? We recommend taking the courses in the order presented, as each subsequent course will build on material from previous courses. Will I earn university credit for completing the Python for Everybody Specialization? Coursera courses and certificates don't carry university credit, though some universities may choose to accept Specialization Certificates for credit. Check with your institution to learn more. What will I be able to do upon completing the Python for Everybody Specialization? If you are new to programming, this Specialization will prepare you to take other courses and develop advanced skills. Recommended follow-up courses include Johns Hopkins University’s Data Science Specialization and the University of Michigan’s Web Design Specialization.  If you have  some prior experience in data analysis, this Specialization is an excellent way to add Python skills to your repertoire. What if I already earned a Course Certificate in Programming for Everybody (Python)? If you previously earned a verified Course Certificate for the Programming for Everybody (Python) course, you will automatically receive credit for completing courses 1 and 2 in the Specialization. You may begin with the third course of the Specialization, and you will receive a Specialization Certificate upon successful completion of courses 3 and 4 and the Capstone Project. However, if you earned an unverified Statement of Accomplishment, you will need to earn Course Certificates in all four courses, and successfully complete the Capstone Project. 