Additional   are available. Additional COVID-19 case information: An   are available. Globally, efforts have focused on taking measures to contain the outbreak and prevent further spread. An official   and   are in effect: avoid non-essential travel outside Canada until further notice. COVID-19 is a serious health  threat, and the situation is evolving daily. The risk  varies between and within communities,  but given the  number of cases in Canada,  the risk to Canadians is considered  . We continue to reassess the public health risk based on the best available evidence as the situation evolves. For more  information, refer to our  . The Public Health Agency of Canada is working with provinces, territories and international partners, including the World Health Organization, to actively monitor the situation. Global efforts are focused on containment of the outbreak and the prevention of further spread. Canada's Chief Public Health Officer of Canada is in close contact with provincial and territorial Chief Medical Officers of Health to ensure that any cases of COVID-19 occurring in Canada continue to be rapidly identified and managed in order to protect the health of Canadians. Canada's National Microbiology  Laboratory is performing diagnostic testing for the virus that causes COVID-19.  The laboratory is working in close collaboration with provincial and  territorial public health laboratories, which are now able to test for COVID-19.   This  summary of people tested in Canada is  updated  once a   day. This testing summary represents information collected by the laboratory and   the   in Canada. The remainder of tests not reported here are still being resolved. Should there be any differences with the national case count compared with testing numbers reported by provincial and territorial public health officials, provincial data should be considered the most up-to-date. For more information, visit  . If you're looking for information on COVID-19, specific to your province, refer to our  . If you have additional questions that aren't answered on our website,  . . Sign up to receive important information from the Government of Canada. Have a question? Start here! Thank you! I have found a page that may help. You will not receive a reply. For enquiries,  . 