Symptoms of COVID-19 can vary from person to person. Symptoms may also vary in different age groups. Some of the more commonly reported symptoms include: Children have been more commonly reported to have abdominal symptoms, and skin changes or rashes. In severe cases, infection can lead to death. Symptoms  may take up to 14 days to appear after exposure to COVID-19.  Evidence indicates that the virus can be transmitted to others from someone who is infected but not showing symptoms. This includes people who: While experts know that these kinds of transmissions are happening among those in close contact or in close physical settings, it is not known to what extent. This means it is extremely important to follow the proven  . If you are showing symptoms of COVID-19, reduce your contact with others: Children who have mild COVID-19 symptoms are able to stay at home with a caregiver throughout their recovery without needing hospitalization. If you are caring for a child who has suspected or probable COVID-19, it is important to follow the  . This advice will help you protect yourself, others in your home, as well as others in the community. If you become sick while travelling back to Canada: Have you been on a recent flight, cruise, train, or at a public gathering? Check the listed   to see if you may have been exposed to COVID-19. The COVID-19 pandemic is new and unexpected. This situation can be unsettling and can cause a sense of loss of control. It is normal to feel sad, stressed, confused, scared or worried in a crisis. Make sure to care for your   and to ask for help if you feel overwhelmed. Since the signs and symptoms of  COVID-19 can be absent, mild, severe or can look like the flu or other  illnesses, the only way to confirm you have COVID-19 is through a  .  For  information about COVID-19 testing in your area, contact your local  .  If you’ve been tested for coronavirus and receive a  positive test result, you must  , whether you have symptoms or not. If you have symptoms (symptomatic),  If you   symptoms (asymptomatic) you must: Refer to your   to find out how many days you should remain in  isolation. Most people with mild coronavirus illness will recover on their own. If you are concerned about your symptoms, you should self-monitor and consult your health care provider. They may recommend steps you can take to relieve symptoms. We do not yet have a vaccine to prevent COVID-19, but research and  development are underway. Health Canada has introduced   that will speed up the review of  COVID-19 health products while still meeting standards for:  Learn more about  . If you have received a flu vaccine, it will   protect against coronaviruses, but will help prevent the flu. Getting the flu could make you more vulnerable to other infections. Getting the flu vaccine will   increase your risk of illness from coronavirus. For more information, please refer to this recently published   are a large family of viruses. Some cause illness in people and others cause illness in animals. Human coronaviruses are common and are typically associated with mild illnesses, similar to the common cold. COVID-19 is a new disease that has not been previously identified in humans. Rarely, animal coronaviruses can infect people, and more rarely, these can then spread from person to person through close contact. There have been 2 other specific coronaviruses that have spread from animals to humans and which have caused severe illness in humans. These are the: Have a question? Start here! Thank you! I have found a page that may help. You will not receive a reply. For enquiries,  . 