
  
          
         
 
          
 News and Journal Articles You can follow us on  or  ; our posts are shared on both sites. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
			also 
 Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that may cause a range of illnesses in humans, from the common cold to SARS. Viruses of this family also cause a number of animal diseases. On December 31, 2019 the WHO China Country Office was informed of cases of pneumonia of unknown etiology detected in Wuhan City, Hubei Province of China. The outbreak began in a seafood and poultry market in Wuhan, a city of 11 million in central China. Like SARS and MERS-CoV, the newly detected coronavirus has a zoonotic source, however, human to human transmission has been confirmed. On March 11, 2020 the WHO declared COVID-19 viral disease a pandemic. As of July 24, 2020 total of 15,578,624 confirmed cases caused by the novel Coronavirus COVID-19 and 634,744 deaths were reported. At this time 188 countries are reporting cases of the novel Coronavirus. For a full listing of affected countries refer to  Source:   (Johns Hopkins University). As of July 23, 2020, a total of 112,672 confirmed cases caused by the novel Coronavirus COVID-19 and 8,874 deaths were reported in Canada. An   is available. For real time information refer to the: Provided by: Public Health Agency of Canada Source:  The first human infections in China must have occurred in November 2019 or earlier. The first 59 suspected cases at the end of December 2019 and early January 2020 were admitted to Jinyintan Hospital, which was specially designated to isolate them. On January 23, 2020, Chinese authorities closed off the city, canceling planes and trains leaving Wuhan and suspending buses, subways and ferry services.  A second city in China, Huanggang was also placed in lockdown. On January 24, 2020 travel was restricted to a total of 10 cities, affecting 50 million people. Public bus, railway and airline operations were also suspended in these cities. On January 30, 2020 the World Health Organization (WHO) announced that the novel coronavirus is considered a public health emergency of international concern (PHEIC). The International Health Regulations Emergency Committee announcement this decision due to concern for further global spread after person-to-person spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) was confirmed in 4 countries (Germany, Japan, Vietnam and the United States) outside of China. As for February 5, 2020, forty major airlines around the world have canceled or reduced their flights to China until as late as March amid the coronavirus outbreak. On February 19 and 21, 2020; cases were reported in Iran and Italy respectively with no known direct link to Mainland China. On March 9, 2020 Italy expanded the quarantine from the Lombardy region to the entire country, as Italy’s case count surged. People throughout the country of 60 million were ordered not to travel other than for work or emergencies. South Korea and Iran have also imposed travel restrictions. On March 11, 2020 the WHO declared COVID-19 viral disease a pandemic. As of May 13, 2020 the virus had spread to 188 countries with travel bans and restrictions implemented in many countries combined with various social distancing measures (ie. school, public space closures) in an effort to slow COVID-19 spread and flatten the epidemiological curve. Preliminary calculations for the average number of infections that each infected person may go on to cause, known as R . This is estimated to be 2.0 to 3.0 people per infected person. In comparison to seasonal flu, which usually has an R  of around 1.3.   The World Health Organization announced that the fatality rate in Wuhan, China, considered the epicenter of the outbreak, is between 2% and 4%. Outside of Wuhan, it is thought to be closer to 0.7%. In a recent   The overall case-fatality rate was 2.3%. No deaths occurred in those aged 9 years and younger, in those aged 70 to 79 years had an 8% fatality rate and those aged 80 years and older had a fatality rate of 14.8%. Children made up a 2.4% of the cases and almost none was severely ill. The fatality rate was 49% among critical cases, and elevated among those with preexisting conditions: 10.5% for people with cardiovascular disease, 7.3% for diabetes, 6.3% for chronic respiratory disease, 6% for hypertension, and 5.6% for cancer. A   done by WHO and Chinese scientists has found that 80% of infected people had mild to moderate disease, 13.8% had severe symptoms, and 6.1% had life-threatening episodes of respiratory failure, septic shock, or organ failure. No deaths were reported among mild and severe cases. For the mild and moderate cases, it took 2 weeks on average to recover. Currently, randomized controlled clinical trials are being conducted to investigate the safety and efficacy of its investigational antiviral compound remdesivir (GS-5734) against the novel coronavirus (COVID-19). Provincial/Territorial public health authorities should report confirmed and probable cases of COVID-19 nationally to the Public Health Agency of Canada within 24 hours of their own notification. A person with symptoms that include two or more of:         And Or A person (who has had a laboratory test): And          Or A person (who has not had a laboratory test): And Close contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19        Or In the 14 days before onset of illness, a person who:         Or          Or         Or Illnesses associated with the new coronavirus, named COVID-19, are similar to several respiratory illnesses and include fever, dry cough, sore throat and headache. Less frequent symptoms included coughing sputum or blood, headache and diarrhea. Most cases are considered mild to moderate with a subset experiencing more severe illness with shortness of breath and difficulty breathing. Reported signs and symptoms include: Prior to any patient interaction, all healthcare workers (HCWs) have a responsibility to assess the infectious risk posed to themselves and to other patients, visitors, and HCWs. This risk assessment is based on professional judgment about the clinical situation and up-to-date information on how the specific healthcare organization has designed and implemented engineering and administrative controls, along with the availability and use of personal protective equipment (PPE). Recommendations for infection prevention and control measures for patients presenting with suspected or confirmed infection or co-infection with COVID-19 in acute care settings include: : For all patients, at all times, in all healthcare settings including when performing a point-of-care risk assessment, and adherence to respiratory hygiene and hand hygiene.   : : When performing aerosol-generating medical procedures (AGMPs). A respirator and face/eye protection should be used by all HCWs present in a room where an AGMP is being performed on a patient suspected or confirmed to have COVID-19 infection. Whenever possible, AGMPs should be performed in an airborne infection isolation room. As information becomes available, these recommendations will be re-evaluated and updated as needed. Refer to    