Durham Health Connection Line is open Monday to Friday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. We are responding to messages Monday to Sunday, 8:30 a.m to 6 p.m. Any person who has at least one  , even if the symptom(s) are mild, can be tested for COVID-19. People who have no symptoms but are concerned they have been exposed to a person with COVID-19 or who are at risk of exposure in their workplace (e.g. health care workers, grocery store employees, food processing workers), can also be tested for COVID-19. Testing for COVID-19 is through an upper respiratory tract specimen (nasopharyngeal swab, nasal swab and/or viral throat swab) to test for the presence of the virus. If you develop any of the   below, self-isolate and seek clinical assessment by: : The COVID-19 Assessment Clinic  accept walk-ins.   Atypical symptoms of COVID-19 should be considered, particularly in children, older persons, and people living with a developmental disability. Atypical symptoms can include: unexplained fatigue/malaise/myalgias, delirium (acutely altered mental status and inattention), unexplained or increased number of falls, acute functional decline, exacerbation of chronic conditions, chills, headaches, croup, conjunctivitis, and multisystem inflammatory vasculitis in children. Note: Symptoms of multisystem inflammatory vasculitis in children include persistent fever, abdominal pain, conjunctivitis, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea and rash. If you have an Ontario Health Card COVID-19 test results can be accessed online through the  . If you do not have an Ontario Health Card or you are unable to access your result online, please call the Durham Health Connection Line at 905-668-2020 or 1-800-841-2729. There continues to be evidence of community transmission of COVID-19 in Durham Region. This means that the virus is spreading in the community and is not necessarily linked to travel or other known cases.   Durham Region Health Department has created this dashboard to present updated information about COVID-19 cases in Durham Region. We show the number of confirmed cases by status, municipality, age and gender. The COVID-19 Data Tracker also displays the number of new cases and cumulative cases by reported date and onset date. This information will help us to see whether we are "flattening the curve". These data are extracted daily from the integrated Public Health Information System (iPHIS) at 1 p.m. The numbers may differ from other sources such as Public Health Ontario, as data may be extracted at different times. The COVID-19 Data Tracker was created with the assistance of the Region of Durham’s Corporate Services – Information Technology Division and the Data, Mapping & Graphics Group within the Planning & Economic Development Department. The use of non-medical masks or face coverings in all enclosed (indoor) public spaces is an additional public health measure (along with physical distancing, hand and cough hygiene, and staying home when sick) that may prevent the spread of COVID-19 within the community. Wearing a non-medical mask when in public or other settings is not a replacement for following proven measures such as handwashing and  . As of 12:01 p.m. Tuesday July 28, 2020, wearing non-medical masks or face coverings will be required in all enclosed (indoor) public spaces in Durham Region. Enclosed public spaces are indoor public spaces of businesses or organizations accessed by the public, where the public interact with each other and with staff. The areas of all enclosed (indoor) public spaces that are subject to the non-medical mask and face covering requirements are:  issued on July 28 and  . A person is exempt from wearing a non-medical mask or face covering on the premises if: Does a person have to show proof of their exemption? No, a person does not have to show proof of their exemption. There is no need for an exemption card, or a letter from a physician. To choose a non-medical mask or face covering, ensure: Other options for non-medical masks include wearing a bandana or scarf, or making one out of a T-shirt or a bandana. Durham Region Transit passengers are required to wear a face covering or non-medical mask at all times during their travels on public transit, except for those that have exemptions. Please visit   for the full list of passenger requirements to protect yourself and others while using public transit. Signage for all enclosed (indoor) public spaces: Today, I issued   to expand the use of mandatory face coverings to all indoor, enclosed public spaces throughout Durham Region. These instructions are an extension of the directions provided on July 6 and are issued to help with efforts to decrease the spread of COVID-19 in the community. Although many members of our community are currently wearing face coverings as outlined in my instructions from July 6, there continues to be a risk for increased cases of COVID-19 in the community during Stage 3. Mandatory face coverings in indoor, enclosed public spaces during Stage 3 will help us to continue to reduce the risk of increased spread of illness and aligns with other regions and municipalities, and other public health units. Indoor, enclosed public spaces include any spaces open to the public where the public interact with each other and with staff of these establishments. These spaces include places where goods and services are sold, municipal facilities, including libraries, indoor attractions, event spaces, indoor entertainment facilities, athletic facilities, dining establishments, and private transportation services. Some establishments have separate guidelines and regulations and are not included in these instructions, such as schools, childcare centres, day camps, places of worship, hospitals, offices not open to members of the public, and outdoor spaces. The Health Department will focus enforcement activities on educating community members about the mandatory requirements for non-medical masks or face coverings. Business operators should make every effort to remind customers to wear a face covering, but also be mindful that some in our community may be unable to wear a face covering for very valid reasons. I ask all area residents and business operators to be respectful, work together and recognize that some people may be exempt from wearing a face covering for various reasons including health concerns, age or religious reasons. Business operators should not deny access to goods or services if a face covering cannot be worn, and no person is required to provide proof of exemption. Please remember to continue to practise physical distancing wherever possible even when wearing a face covering, and refer to Health Department resources on  ,  , and  . July 23, 2020 On July 24, Durham Region can move into Stage 3 of the provincial government’s  . The province’s decision was made in consultation with Ontario’s Chief Medical Officer of Health and was based on results of key public health indicators. In Stage 3, almost all businesses and public spaces can reopen with public health measures in place to protect staff and the public. Certain high-risk places and activities may not open during Stage 3 due to the likelihood of large crowds congregating, difficulties with physical distancing, or challenges maintaining the proper cleaning and sanitation required to prevent the spread of COVID-19. A complete list of places that can and cannot open in Stage 3 is available in  . Gatherings are limited to a maximum of 50 people indoors and a maximum of 100 people outdoors. While gathering limits will be increased and residents will be able to get back to most regular activities, everyone must continue to follow public health advice, practise physical distancing and limit close contact to members of their   of no more than 10 people. Public health measures that residents can take to protect themselves and others (e.g. proper hand hygiene, staying home if feeling unwell, cleaning and disinfecting surfaces often, avoid touching one’s face, etc.) have not changed and are recommended to reduce the spread of germs. Please refer to Health Department resources on   for actions you can continue to take to reduce the spread of COVID-19. With everyone’s commitment and cooperation, we have seen progress across Durham Region and a decrease in the number of new cases of COVID-19. In Stage 3, we will need the continued commitment of all area residents to maintain these gains and prevent an increase in the spread of illness.  July 15, 2020 Currently, Durham Region is in Stage 2 of the government’s reopening framework and we may receive communication about movement to Stage 3 in the coming weeks. During Stage 2, we have seen many local businesses and workplaces reopen including restaurant patios, recreational water facilities, some personal service settings, malls and other area services. As the Region continues to reopen, we must all remember that the risk for the ongoing spread of illness remains. Area residents are asked to continue following public health advice to prevent a potential increase in COVID-19 spread in our community. The Health Department’s COVID-19 web page provides numerous resources that can help residents understand the status of COVID-19 activity in our Region, and the preventative measures that they can take to keep themselves and others safe. Residents can find: information about COVID-19 testing and accessing test results; up to date information on COVID-19 cases in Durham Region through the Durham Region COVID-19 Data Tracker; a comprehensive Community Reopening Toolkit that includes guidance to residents and businesses to prepare for the safe reopening of our community; Section 22 class orders and special instructions that I have issued; information about non-medical masks and face coverings, and resources to help residents choose, make and use non-medical masks; up to date information about travel; and, additional facts about COVID-19. Through the various stages of reopening, please continue to stay informed, practise physical distancing, wash your hands frequently and thoroughly, avoid touching your eyes, nose and mouth, and wear a non-medical mask or face covering in commercial establishments. Please visit   regularly for the latest information, resources and tools so you can stay safe while getting back to your normal activities and routines. July 9, 2020 During the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic, Durham Region Health Department had to close clinics and suspend many regular programs and services to ensure our capacity to respond to COVID-19, comply with provincial direction and ensure public safety. Now that the number of new cases of COVID-19 has been decreasing across the Region, the Health Department can begin to restore priority programs and services with protective measures in place to ensure the safety of clients and staff. The Health Department is pleased to advise residents that we are gradually restoring our clinical services. Clinical programs began to see clients on July 6 and we will slowly be increasing availability and the range of services throughout the summer. Services are now being provided at the Breastfeeding, Oral Health and Sexual Health clinics. Residents can call Durham Health Connection Line at 1-800-841-2729 to make an appointment. Currently, all clinic visits are by appointment only and walk-in patients will not be accepted at any location to help control the spread of COVID-19. Clients will be screened for COVID-19 symptoms, assessed regarding their appointment needs, and will be required to wear a non-medical mask or face covering to all in-person clinic appointments. Our Infant and Child Development program will be providing virtual care to clients and the Immunization program will provide appointments for priority clients. The Health Department is also working hard to ensure delivery of priority health protection programs. West Nile virus surveillance activities began at the beginning of June and   are provided on durham.ca. Public health inspectors have also been investigating all animal bites and scratches to prevent the spread of rabies to residents. The Health Department has completed 670 rabies investigations, so far this year. Public health inspections are also still focused on ensuring that required preventative measures to safeguard against COVID-19 have been implemented. As the Health Department begins to restore its programs and services, COVID-19 will continue to be a public health priority. We will continue to review new information, assess the risks to the public and will adjust our restoration plans as required. July 7, 2020 While cases of COVID-19 are currently decreasing in Durham Region, the risk for the ongoing spread of illness remains as the Region continues to re-open. That is why I have issued   to commercial establishments, currently permitted to operate under the  ,  , to have a policy in place to prohibit people not wearing a non-medical mask or face covering from entering or remaining in the premises. The use of non-medical masks or face coverings in commercial establishments is an additional public health measure (along with physical distancing, hand and cough hygiene, and staying home when sick) that may prevent the spread of COVID-19 within the community. Non-medical masks or face coverings will be required in commercial establishments currently operating during Stage 2, while the provincial Emergency Orders remain in force. The Health Department will be taking a progressive enforcement approach to ensure compliance, with a focus on education. Residents can support local businesses by paying attention to signage and following instructions at commercial establishments. Both individuals and businesses who do not comply with the requirements may be fined. Please refer to the   for details on the commercial establishments included in the instructions, establishments that are excluded, and people that are exempt from wearing a non-medical mask or face covering in commercial establishments. A number of tools and resources have been developed to support commercial establishments and help residents to comply with requirements, including  ,   and  . Please continue to be vigilant and follow public health advice as we continue to fight the spread of COVID-19 in our community. July 2, 2020 Across the province, there has been an increasing number of COVID-19 outbreaks at agricultural workplaces employing temporary foreign workers (TFWs). TFWs play a vital role in our agricultural industry and provide essential support to local farm owners/operators. As TFWs may be living in shared seasonal accommodations with limited opportunity for physical distancing, they can be at increased risk of illness from COVID-19. On June 24, I issued a  , under the authority of the  , that will strengthen our ability to reduce the spread of COVID-19 and protect the health of our essential food sector workers. The class order is a legal tool to help ensure that agricultural farm owners/operators and staff comply with the directions set out in the order. Farm owners/operators who employ TFWs are required to implement public health measures and take actions listed in the order to minimize the risks to health for those they employ. In addition to the class order, Region of Durham Paramedic Services has been working hard to collect swabs for testing from TFWs to support our surveillance testing efforts. The surveillance testing will help to proactively prevent the spread of COVID-19 among the temporary foreign worker and agricultural worker populations. Detailed   have also been developed to provide information to farm owners/operators and TFWs about precautions they should take in response to COVID-19. The Health Department is continuing to fight the spread of COVID-19 across Durham Region and is working to help protect vulnerable populations in our community. June 30, 2020 The Health Department has implemented a number of enhancements to the   to help inform residents of the status of COVID-19 in Durham Region. In addition to information about case status, institutional outbreaks, trends and exposure source, residents can view cases according to Health Neighbourhoods. Users can filter an interactive map by a particular Health Neighbourhood to see the total number of cases and the cases per 100,000 population for the neighbourhood. The Data Tracker now also features   to show how well Durham Region is doing in terms of virus spread and containment, health system capacity, public health capacity, and laboratory testing for COVID-19. The indicators were chosen by Ontario public health units as core indicators for local monitoring to help inform reopening decisions. For each of the indicators, users can see if Durham Region is meeting the goal, approaching the goal, or does not meet the goal. Details on the definition of each indicator are available in the Technical Notes on the Data Tracker. The monitoring indicators are updated every Wednesday, whereas the other data reported on the Data Tracker continue to be updated daily. The data are continuously reviewed and discussed with community partners to help inform local planning. Please continue to visit   regularly for the latest information, resources and tools to help keep yourself and your family safe as the province begins to reopen. June 25, 2020 With the arrival of summer and the opening of local public beaches, it is understandable that area residents will want to spend time enjoying the water. While current research shows that the risk of COVID-19 transmission from recreational waters is very low, we know that COVID-19 is spread through respiratory droplets when in close contact with others. In public spaces, including while swimming, playing and relaxing at the beach, it is very important for residents to practise physical distancing and stay at least two metres (six feet) away from anyone outside of their household or  . Residents are less likely to be exposed to COVID-19 if physical distancing is maintained while in the water and on the shore. Before heading to the beach, ensure that you are prepared: check the  ;   to check for any COVID-19 symptoms; pack alcohol-based hand sanitizer (containing at least 60 per cent alcohol) and disinfectant wipes to be used during your beach visit; and, consider taking a bag with you to easily and quickly dispose of your garbage. Please follow instructions and respect signage at the beach. Changes will be implemented to protect beachgoers and facilitate physical distancing and proper hand hygiene where possible. For more information, refer to the Health Department’s  . Please stay home if you are experiencing symptoms of COVID-19 or you have been in close contact with anyone who has been sick with the virus. We encourage area residents to enjoy outdoor activities while using personal protective measures and staying safe. June 23, 2020 While it may appear that things are beginning to get back to normal within Durham Region, we must continue to remind ourselves that our fight is not over. Due to everyone’s collective efforts and taking actions like practising physical distancing, wearing a mask when physical distancing is a challenge, frequent handwashing, staying at home when feeling unwell, and keeping high touch surfaces clean, we have seen a decrease in the number of new COVID-19 cases across Durham Region. As more area businesses and services reopen and a greater number of residents are out within the community, it is more important than ever to continue to take actions to  .   and   continue to be some of the most effective strategies to protect yourselves and others.  At this time, people in Durham Region are also strongly encouraged to wear a non-medical mask or face covering if physical distancing is not possible. Please refer to Health Department resources for   and  . The Health Department continues to evaluate the latest evidence and considers all options, based on provincial information and the local context to provide area residents with public health advice that will help keep everyone safe. June 18, 2020 The province announced that Durham Region can move to Stage 2 of the government’s reopening framework on June 19. Stage 2 allows for the reopening of many businesses and workplaces including restaurant patios, recreational water facilities, some personal service settings, malls and other area services. A complete list of businesses and facilities that can open is available at  . Dates and approaches to reopening may vary based on our community’s local needs and the ability of each business or service to meet workplace safety guidelines and public health advice. Clients and consumers will see many changes in the way services are provided. Local businesses will depend on the continued support and cooperation of their clients to ensure everyone’s safety. The Health Department has compiled information in a   intended to provide guidance to residents and businesses to prepare for the safe reopening of our community. All area residents and businesses are encouraged to review the information in the Toolkit to familiarize themselves with actions they can take to protect themselves, their clients and their staff. It is important to remember that the COVID-19 pandemic is not over, and community spread is still occurring. If you have any symptoms or if you have been in close contact with someone who is sick or has COVID-19 in the past 14 days, or if you have returned from travel outside of Canada,  , go home, self-isolate and consult   to determine next steps. Please continue to practise physical distancing, wear a face covering if physical distancing is a challenge, wash your hands frequently and thoroughly, and avoid touching your eyes, nose and mouth. June 16, 2020 Practising physical distancing continues to be a key strategy to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in our community. Thank you to all area residents and community partners that have been working hard to follow public health advice to help keep community members healthy and safe. Everyone’s cooperative efforts have helped us to move past the peak of COVID-19 infection in Durham Region. Now that we are beginning to see a decrease in the number of new cases reported in our Region, we can broaden the number of individuals with whom we maintain close contact. The provincial government is encouraging people throughout Ontario to establish a social circle of no more than 10 people who can interact and come into close contact with one another without physical distancing. This means that residents may be able to hug, touch and be close with family and friends outside their immediate household, which will support the mental health and well-being of all residents. The provincial government has developed a   during COVID-19. If someone in the social circle begins to feel unwell, the individual must immediately self-isolate and should inform other members of the circle. Everyone else in the circle should closely monitor themselves for symptoms of COVID-19. Individuals that may have been exposed to COVID-19 can arrange to get tested by completing the  . Please stay informed, be vigilant and follow public health advice as we continue to fight the spread of COVID-19. June 11, 2020 As the provincial government gradually begins to ease restrictions, Durham Region residents will need to continue to be vigilant and take protective public health measures to prevent themselves and others from becoming ill. To continue to closely monitor the spread of COVID-19, the provincial government released an expanded testing plan which includes: asymptomatic, risk-based testing; targeted testing for vulnerable populations; and, ongoing testing to respond to and manage outbreaks. Testing and contact tracing help us to understand transmission, identify trends and monitor the spread of COVID-19. Residents who are symptomatic (people with at least one symptom of COVID-19, even mild and atypical symptoms), residents who are asymptomatic (people with no symptoms but who are concerned that they have been exposed to COVID-19) and individuals who are at risk of exposure in their workplace, can get tested. Testing for COVID-19 is through an upper respiratory tract specimen (nasopharyngeal swab, nasal swab and/or viral throat swab) to test for the presence of the virus. Residents who would like to be tested for COVID-19 must complete the  . Once the form is submitted, the Assessment Centre will respond and provide further instructions. The Assessment Centre does not accept walk-in clients. It is always important to remember that a test will only provide a point-in-time result. Residents exposed to COVID-19 following a negative test may develop symptoms and may need to be tested again. If you have been tested and you develop symptoms at a later time, you must immediately self-isolate to prevent others from becoming ill. All residents, even those with negative test results, must continue to practise physical distancing, wash their hands often and take additional public health precautions, such as using a face covering (non-medical mask) when physical distancing may not be possible, to keep themselves, their families, colleagues and community members healthy and safe. June 9, 2020 Residents living in retirement homes and other congregate living settings, such as group homes and shelters, are some of the most vulnerable in our community. We know that older adults are at greater risk for severe illness from COVID-19 and physical distancing may be challenging for those living in group settings and using shared spaces. The Health Department is working hard to minimize the risks of COVID-19 by taking extra steps to facilitate testing, on a volunteer basis, for residents and staff of these homes. The purpose of surveillance testing is to learn more about the spread of COVID-19, especially asymptomatic infection, in the community. This information provides a point-in-time picture of COVID-19 and can help inform timely strategies to prevent the spread of illness. With the help of Region of Durham Paramedic Services, and the support of our local partners including group homes, retirement homes, shelters and our Social Services colleagues, 3,140 swabs for testing have been collected from residents and staff, as of June 8. In addition, thanks to the collaborative efforts of our administrative services staff, paramedics, public health inspectors and public health nurses who are working hard to organize and monitor testing, we have successfully completed surveillance activities at over 50 facilities. We hope that the enhanced surveillance testing will help to protect vulnerable populations in our community. June 4, 2020 While some restrictions are slowly being lifted and more businesses and services are identifying ways to reopen safely, the work of the Health Department continues to be focused on COVID-19. We are now seeing that there is an overall decrease of new cases reported in the community, but we did see a small increase over the past week and data show that community spread is still occurring. That’s why our focus continues to be on preventing the spread of COVID-19 in our community. Staff remains committed to providing support across Durham Region to ensure that all sectors and residents have the information they need to continue to protect themselves and their families. Over the past few weeks, the Health Department has implemented: enhanced surveillance testing and has supported testing of all staff and residents in long-term care homes and staff in emergency childcare centres; Region of Durham Paramedic Services is obtaining nasal swabs from retirement homes and other congregate settings; a new Community Reopening Toolkit was launched on May 29; there have been a number of enhancements to the Durham Region COVID-19 Data Tracker, including detailed information on institutional outbreaks and cases reported by exposure source; and, staff continues to focus on case and contact management and consistently exceeds the provincial target of contacting 90 per cent of newly identified cases within 24 hours. The   which highlights some of the Health Department’s COVID-19 response activities and achievements to date has been updated. While we are working on a plan for restoring Health Department programs and services, COVID-19 will continue to be a priority. We remain committed to protecting the health and safety of area residents and will continue to keep our community informed of public health measures that will help to further decrease the number of new cases of COVID-19 in Durham Region. June 2, 2020 The provincial government continues to ease restrictions and more businesses and services are opening in Durham Region. As businesses and services begin to reopen, every precaution should be taken to ensure the health and safety of the community and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. The Health Department has launched a new online resource to provide businesses and the community with information on the various stages of reopening of services as announced by the provincial government. The Community Reopening Toolkit is designed to help users navigate through resources from numerous organizations that are providing information to help with the requirements of reopening businesses and services. Information in the Community Reopening Toolkit includes links to resources from a variety of industry agencies and numerous guidance documents for sector-specific businesses and services. The Health Department has also created downloadable resources – such as signage and flyers – which can be used by businesses and services to help them plan and understand the requirements for reopening services and amenities. The toolkit will be constantly updated as new openings and phases are announced and obsolete information will be removed. To access the Community Reopening Toolkit, visit  . May 29, 2020 Our advice to reduce the transmission of COVID-19 in our community continues to be to stay home as much as possible and practice physical distancing. Thank you to everyone who is doing their part and only going out when necessary. You are helping us to reduce the transmission of COVID-19 in Durham Region. At the same time, residents should also pay attention to their health and any symptoms that require urgent attention. Residents should always call 911 if they are in medical distress and need urgent care. Emergency departments, paramedics and 911 services are continuing to respond to medical emergencies. The Region of Durham Paramedic Services has implemented numerous measures to ensure the safety of patients who require transport to hospital, as well as the paramedics providing care. Local hospitals have also taken precautions and implemented changes to ensure the safety of patients such as frequent cleaning, staff wearing personal protective equipment (PPE), frequent hand-washing, separate care areas for patients with COVID-19 and screening at emergency room entrances. Some of the signs that may indicate a medical emergency include: unconsciousness, lack of breathing, or lack of pulse; chest pain or discomfort; severe pain; shortness of breath or dizziness; choking; broken bones; severe bleeding; trouble seeing or speaking; sudden, severe headaches; and sudden weakness, numbness, or tingling in the face, arms or legs. If you are in medical distress and need urgent care and have symptoms of COVID-19, call 911 and let the operator know that you may have COVID-19. This will ensure that paramedics arriving on scene can take appropriate precautions. For more information on when to call 911, please visit the Emergency Services web page on  . May 28, 2020 This week, May 25-29, is Privacy Awareness Week. This is a global effort to promote awareness of privacy issues and the importance of the protection of personal information. This year’s Privacy Awareness Week arrived during both uncertain and unprecedented times. Durham Region Health Department, much like many health care providers around the world, is learning to adapt and respond to the very serious challenges presented by COVID-19. As circumstances are changing rapidly, the demand for timely and relevant information requires that we adjust to new ways of operating. We understand that personal health information needs to be shared to prevent and manage COVID-19, and that public health concerns are front of mind in this current pandemic. The Health Department is also aware of its role in supporting public trust and confidence in the handling of such information, and our Health Information, Privacy and Security (HIPS) team work very hard to maintain that public trust and confidence. In taking steps to manage the pandemic, the Health Department has implemented information handling practices to: On-going and annual training and awareness in privacy and information security for all Health Department staff helps keep us abreast of developments in appropriate safeguards, and equips us with the information we need to confidently and correctly handle personal health information. This is all very important work of the HIPS team as they continue to ensure the protection and care of our community’s personal health information. May 25, 2020 This week, May 24-30, is National Paramedic Services Week and I acknowledge the hard work, support and selfless dedication of the paramedics in the Region of Durham Paramedic Services (RDPS). The theme for this year is Pandemic: Paramedics on the Front Line – a truly appropriate message as it demonstrates the important role that paramedics play as part of the first response team of the healthcare system during a pandemic. RDPS is made up of more than 330 advanced care and primary care paramedics serving the residents of Durham Region and surrounding area, responding to over 145,000 calls for service every year. The members of this highly skilled team are often the first on the scene providing care and support in very challenging conditions, and COVID-19 has dramatically affected the way paramedics keep themselves and the public safe and healthy. Throughout this pandemic, RDPS has played an integral role in providing assistance and working with Health Department staff to help reduce the spread of COVID-19. In addition to responding to ongoing emergency requests for service throughout our community, RDPS provided invaluable support to the Health Department’s COVID-19 response by collecting over 1,060 nasal swabs for testing from long-term care residents and staff, as part of the provincial surveillance initiative to get a point-in-time picture of COVID-19 in these facilities. COVID-19 has also created added strain on paramedic services, as paramedics need to be careful not to expose themselves to the virus and risk spreading it to others in the community. This means wearing numerous kinds of personal protective equipment (PPE) several times per shift, which is necessary to protect both paramedics and members of our community. In addition, the diligent work of the logistics and operational support staff, who work behind the scenes everyday, is imperative to ensure our paramedics are able to provide the best service to the residents of Durham Region. As key members of first responders, all members of RDPS play a vital role in the response to COVID-19 and I thank them all for their ongoing commitment to our community during these challenging times. May 21, 2020 On May 13, the case definition for COVID-19 was updated to include multisystem inflammatory vasculitis as an atypical presentation in children. This inflammatory illness has recently been reported in a small number of children worldwide in relation to the COVID-19 pandemic. Some of the symptoms associated with this illness include persistent fever, abdominal pain, gastrointestinal symptoms (including nausea, vomiting and diarrhea), as well as rash. This multisystem inflammatory vasculitis has symptoms that may also occur in Kawasaki disease (an illness that causes inflammation of the arteries). Parents should contact their health care providers if their children experience these symptoms. Residents may have also heard of COVID toes in the media, which refers to skin findings observed in some individuals with COVID-19, characterized by swollen, painful and/or itchy lesions on the feet, toes and fingers. At this time, the Ontario Ministry of Health guidance has not identified COVID toes as an atypical symptom in children. If you have concerns about your child’s health, contact your health care provider. Please continue to follow public health advice to protect yourself and your children from COVID-19. Continue to practice physical distancing, wash your hands often with soap and water, avoid touching your face and keep surfaces clean and disinfected. If you experience symptoms, please stay home and if your symptoms worsen, seek clinical assessment by either completing an online self-assessment, or contacting Durham Health Connection Line, Telehealth Ontario or your health care provider. We are committed to sharing up to date information and advice to help keep residents healthy and safe. Please continue to visit   for resources and tools relevant to our community, and follow us on   and   for the latest updates. May 19, 2020 The Central Lake Ontario Conservation Authority (CLOCA), one of Durham Region’s community partners, will re-open conservation areas on May 20. CLOCA has many beautiful conservation areas throughout Durham Region to enjoy, and it is very important for our health and well-being to remain active, get outdoors and appreciate nature. While this is good news for area residents, the risk of COVID-19 spread remains in the community. We ask that visitors follow physical distancing guidelines and use personal protective measures to protect themselves and others from becoming ill. We remind all visitors to: not gather in groups and avoid crowded places; limit close contact with individuals outside your household, both in indoor and outdoor spaces; stay at least two metres (six feet) away from other people; greet others from a distance with a wave or a nod; pay attention to physical barriers in place to ensure physical distancing; avoid touching your face; keep hand sanitizer with you so you can clean your hands often; cover your sneeze with a tissue and immediately throw the tissue in the garbage, practice hand hygiene and if you do not have a tissue, sneeze into your sleeve or arm; use contactless payment systems and avoid handling money as much as possible; and wash your hands with soap and water at the first opportunity. Please remember to stay home if you are experiencing symptoms of COVID-19 or you have been in close contact with anyone who has been sick with the virus. As the government continues to ease restrictions, residents should stay informed by visiting  , often and referring to the most current and credible public health information and recommendations available from the  ,  ,   and  . May 15, 2020 The provincial government has begun to ease restrictions on businesses in a staged approach. Residents will be able to visit additional seasonal, retail and household businesses, as well as participate in some seasonal services and activities. Please visit the   for the most up to date information. While this is good news for both residents and business owners, it is critical that we all continue to maintain physical distancing, wash our hands frequently, clean high-touch surfaces often, and follow instructions when accessing services. As businesses begin to re-open, residents will see many changes in the way that services are provided, such as minimized use of cash transactions, needing to make appointments for service or pick-up, and being asked to remain in one’s car for curbside pick-up transactions. Since there is still a risk of COVID-19 spread in the community, these changes are crucial to maintain the health and safety of employees and clients. The Health Department is committed to supporting local businesses by providing advice on measures they can implement to operate in a safe way. If we all work together and support each other during this transition period, then we will all be able to get back to our normal routines and the activities we enjoy sooner. Please continue to stay informed, follow instructions and stay home when possible, so we can decrease the number of new COVID-19 cases in our community. May 13, 2020 The Health Department’s COVID-19 response to reduce the spread of illness and protect the health and safety of area residents is a true team effort. Our response has benefited from the expertise of administrative support staff, epidemiologists, nurses, paramedics and public health inspectors. Our administrative support staff has been instrumental in helping to manage resources, monitor inventory and distribute equipment and supplies. The team has assembled more than 4,700 testing kits for use by community partners. The epidemiologists have developed the informative and interactive   to provide residents with detailed information on the status of COVID-19 in our community. Our nurses have been working hard to respond to all inquiries, support residents that have tested positive for COVID-19 and follow contacts of confirmed cases. In addition to responding to ongoing emergency requests for service throughout our community, Region of Durham Paramedic Services has provided significant support to the COVID-19 response by obtaining nasal swabs for testing from area residents, emergency child care centre staff and long-term care residents and staff. Our public health inspectors have been essential in managing outbreaks in facilities and conducting investigations to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. While most of our staff in Oral Health and Infant and Child Development has not been working in their regular program areas, their assistance has been essential as they have been redeployed to provide much needed support with work on COVID-19. Our talented Community and Resource Development team that works very hard to keep residents informed every day, has prepared an   which highlights some of the Health Department’s COVID-19 response activities and achievements to date. Every Health Department staff member has a vital role in helping to keep residents informed, healthy and safe, and I am very appreciative of their hard work and enduring commitment. May 12, 2020 Today on International Nurses Day, I acknowledge the unwavering commitment, highly effective collaboration, expertise and care demonstrated throughout the COVID-19 response by our nurses who work in public health. As the need for resources to address COVID-19 grew, our nurses across all programs immediately responded. They changed their schedules, shifted gears, received training and jumped in to provide support to residents and local partners. The Health Department has a team of highly skilled nurses who have been working with their colleagues to keep residents and local stakeholders informed, support residents who are ill and protect those at risk of becoming ill. Over the past three months, our nurses have completed more than 48,000 phone interactions with residents and community partners, managed more than 1,100 COVID-19 cases, followed almost 2,200 contacts of confirmed cases of COVID-19, and completed more than 14,000 nursing assessments to determine if further medical intervention is required. Our nurses are excellent listeners and skilled problem-solvers who work to understand the unique experiences and challenges faced by area residents. Our nurses also work collaboratively with colleagues across the Health Department to ensure a coordinated response utilizing the experience, expertise and skills of our diverse staff. As key members of the Health Department team, our nurses have played a vital role in our response to the COVID-19 pandemic and we will continue to rely on them to help us through this challenging time. May 7, 2020 The spread of COVID-19 in the Region’s long-term care homes continues to be a very serious concern and we have been working with our long-term care partners to implement outbreak control measures to prevent further illness. In addition to measures already implemented to help reduce the risks for long-term care residents and staff, the Health Department and local partners have mobilized resources to conduct surveillance testing for all staff and residents in long-term care homes, and staff in emergency child care centres by May 15, in accordance with provincial direction. The enhanced surveillance testing will help to further understand the spread of COVID-19 in long-term care homes and will help to proactively prevent the spread of COVID-19 in local emergency child care centres. This significant undertaking involves a collaborative approach which can only be achieved with the efforts and support of our local partners including long-term care homes, child care centres, Lakeridge Health, and our Social Services colleagues. I am thankful for an excellent team of administrative services staff, public health inspectors and public health nurses who are working tirelessly to organize and monitor testing at these facilities, and I am grateful for the highly skilled paramedics that are supporting COVID-19 response activities and conducting testing where needed. Thanks to the support of our local partners and coordinated efforts of everyone, we anticipate that our surveillance activities will be completed within the provincial timeline and we hope that the enhanced surveillance testing will help to protect vulnerable populations in our community. May 5, 2020 On April 25, the Ontario government announced that community and allotment gardens can be used across the province. This announcement recognizes that these gardens are an essential source of fresh food for individuals and families, including those who face food insecurity. Any person who uses community and allotment gardens in Durham Region must do so in compliance with the advice, recommendations and instructions of the Health Department. We are very supportive of these invaluable community initiatives and we are working closely with our community partners, such as the Durham Integrated Growers for a Sustainable Community (DIG), to provide advice, instructions and recommendations regarding the safe use of community and allotment gardens to prevent the transmission of COVID-19 in the community. Please refer to the Health Department’s guidance document   for residents and community partners, and follow instructions to use and operate these gardens in a safe manner. May 1, 2020 The Health Department has been actively involved in COVID-19 response activities since before the first case was confirmed in Canada. Staff was monitoring the global situation very closely in order to prepare for the potential emergence of COVID-19 in Durham Region. As COVID-19 began to spread rapidly across the globe, the Health Department mobilized its resources and began implementing measures identified in the Health Department Emergency Master Plan. Some of the Health Department’s pandemic response activities include: assessment and surveillance; case management and contact tracing; communication; development and implementation of new policies and procedures; documentation and reporting; facilitating testing; and, response to inquiries. Throughout the pandemic, we have ensured ongoing collaboration with local community partners. We are thankful for the support from our community partners who have helped us to coordinate activities and resources to keep residents safe and informed. Using the latest evidence and recommendations received from provincial partners, our staff has developed communications, guidance documents and resources for local stakeholders and the public. Resources are continually updated as we learn more about COVID-19. Our public health nurses continue to work closely with residents who have been diagnosed with COVID-19 to help identify potential risk for their family members, friends or other community members who may have had contact with these individuals. By assessing the risk of exposure to others, contacting community members that may have been exposed, and providing instructions and information about next steps and self-isolation, our staff work to minimize the further spread of COVID-19 in the community. The COVID-19 situation is continually evolving and new information is being shared by the provincial and federal governments daily. At this time, the risk to the community from COVID-19 is ongoing; we will continue to engage with local and provincial partners to monitor this risk and implement provincial recommendations and directives. We are committed to keeping residents and local partners informed of the status of COVID-19 in Durham Region. You can read a detailed summary of the Health Department’s COVID-19 response activities to date in the most recent  . April 29, 2020 During this time of stress and uncertainty, it is critical that we take actions within our control to stay mentally and physically strong. Choosing nutritious foods and practicing healthy eating habits will give your body the nutrients it needs to maintain and promote good mental and physical health. While we encourage residents to limit their trips to the grocery store to once a week, we also encourage you to continue to make healthy choices when meal planning and shopping. It can sometimes be difficult to be mindful of our eating habits when spending more time at home, but we can take this opportunity to plan what we eat and cook more healthy and nutritious meals. When grocery shopping, remember to buy plenty of fruits and vegetables, choose whole grain foods and choose protein foods that come from plant sources, like beans and lentils, more often. Our   web page has several resources to help you make healthy food choices and practice healthy eating habits. There is also information on cooking on a budget and budget-wise recipes which may help residents who are living with lower incomes at this time. Please visit the   web page if you or your neighbours need help in accessing healthy foods. April 27, 2020 Over the past few weeks the Health Department has received many good questions about how COVID-19 is transmitted and the risks to the public in community settings, such as grocery stores. Scientists continue to study this virus and its characteristics, and are learning more every day. Public health professionals use the latest scientific evidence to provide the best advice possible to politicians, decision-makers and the public. Current evidence shows that the most common person-to person transmission of COVID-19 occurs via infectious respiratory droplets, which are produced when someone coughs, sneezes or speaks. The respiratory droplets are heavy and fall to surfaces quickly. The virus enters a person’s body by respiratory droplets containing the virus that adhere to mucous membranes of a person’s eyes, nose or mouth. An uninfected person can come into contact with these respiratory droplets either through close contact with someone who is infected, or by touching a surface or an object contaminated with the virus and then proceeding to touch one’s eyes, nose or mouth. The amount of time that the virus survives on surfaces varies depending on the surface itself and environmental conditions; the current range is between hours to days. This is why it is very important that we all continue to practice physical distancing by keeping at least two metres (six feet) away from others, wash our hands often and clean areas that are touched frequently (such as doorknobs). Please be aware that wearing gloves or non-medical masks alone will not protect you if you do not practice proper hand hygiene and proceed to touch your eyes, nose or mouth. If residents choose to wear gloves at a grocery store, touch an infected surface and then proceed to rub their eyes with their glove, there is a serious risk of infection. In health care settings where aerosol-generating procedures are performed on an infected person, such as intubation, the procedures can generate airborne-spread which can scatter the virus further in the air and can be inhaled. Medical professionals must wear appropriate personal protective equipment when performing medical procedures and coming in contact with patients. You can stay informed about the latest evidence regarding COVID-19 by visiting the  ,   and  . Staying informed and following the advice of public health professionals is the best way to protect yourself and your loved ones from becoming ill. April 24, 2020 The current conditions resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic such as boredom, drastic changes in routines, increased stress, isolation, job loss and uncertainty can lead to an increase in alcohol and cannabis use. The Canadian Centre on Substance Use and Addiction commissioned a   which shows that many Canadians are drinking more while at home due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Drinking alcohol and consuming cannabis have many immediate and long-term health risks. Immediate effects of alcohol can include loss of judgement, falls and injuries, and alcohol poisoning. Long-term risks include cancer, heart disease, high blood pressure and stroke; drinking as little as one drink a day increases a person’s risk for seven different types of cancer. Health risks associated with regular or heavy cannabis use include problems with thinking, memory or co-ordination, impairment leading to injuries, hallucinations, mental health problems, and breathing or lung problems associated with smoking. While you are focusing efforts to protect yourself, your loved ones and community members from COVID-19, please be aware of other actions and behaviours which may increase risks to your health. You can visit our   and   web pages for tips and resources to help protect your health from the risks of alcohol and cannabis. April 22, 2020 Many of you have asked the Health Department for more information to help you understand the status of the spread of COVID-19 in our community. We continue to identify new and improved ways to keep residents informed so that we all have the information we need to be able to fight COVID-19 together. In my previous message about long-term care homes and retirement homes, I assured residents that we are continuing to monitor the situation very closely. Today, I am sharing how we have enhanced the   to provide residents with detailed information on the status of COVID-19 in local hospitals, long-term care homes and retirement homes. The enhancements provide information on current outbreaks in the Region and allow you to view case statistics by facility and facility type. You will also be able to see when an outbreak in a facility is declared over. We continually discuss these data with our hospital, long-term care home and retirement home partners to identify where we need to focus on mitigating risks and where greater support is needed to manage outbreaks and prevent further illness. The information on the Data Tracker is updated daily and can be accessed at  . Please visit   for resources and tools relevant to our community, and  follow us on   and   for the latest updates so that you have the information and knowledge to keep yourself and your family safe. April 20, 2020 We understand that this is a very difficult and stressful time for families who have loved ones living in long-term care and retirement homes. Residents in long-term care and retirement homes are some of the most vulnerable members of our community, and are at significantly greater risk of becoming ill from COVID-19 and suffering serious health consequences. Our heart felt condolences are extended to those who have lost family members and friends to COVID-19. The health and safety of all residents, including those in our area long-term care and retirement homes, are our top priority. Health Department staff has been working with long-term care and retirement homes to provide guidance and information that can help to reduce the risks for both residents and staff of these homes. We have been supporting long-term care and retirement homes to implement outbreak control measures including following Ministry of Health directives, supporting appropriate use of personal protective equipment, increasing environmental sanitation, cleaning and disinfection, emphasizing the importance of hand hygiene amongst residents and staff, and we maintain daily contact with homes to provide additional public health support as needed. We respond to requests quickly, facilitate testing when needed and ensure that results are received as soon as possible. We are monitoring the situation very closely and will continue to support our long-term care and retirement home partners as we fight the spread of COVID-19 together. April 16, 2020 For many of us, the COVID-19 pandemic is unlike any event we have experienced before. It is a very stressful time for all and sadly for some within our community, the challenges and hardships are far greater than they are for others. Taking care of our mental health is very important during this difficult time because good mental health helps us to cope with life’s stresses. Some of the things you can do to improve your mental health are eating a healthy diet, finding opportunities to be physically active and getting enough sleep. Please visit our   for more information and resources to support adults’, children’s and teens’ mental health. The   has provided a list of mental health and addictions services that are accessible online or by phone to support children, youth and adults who may be experiencing anxiety, stress and other mental health challenges, and for individuals who are unable to access their regular in-person counselling supports. Please take care of your mental health and reach out if you need help. April 14, 2020 Thank you to everyone who is doing their part to stay home, as much as possible, and only going out when necessary. You are helping to reduce the spread of COVID-19 in our community. While we ask residents to only go out when necessary, it is still very important for our health and well-being to keep physically active. Many of us are now working from home and children have been out of school for four weeks. It is very easy to spend too much time being inactive while sitting for long periods and playing video games, reading, working at a desk, using a computer, or watching television. Remember to stand or stretch at least every 30 minutes to help reduce your sedentary time. Even though it is quite challenging to meet recommended activity levels at this time, there are resources that can help provide some ideas on being active while at home. You can visit our   to get ideas for being active indoors, such as playing active games, cleaning or putting on some music and dancing.   has also provided suggestions for being active during the COVID-19 pandemic. Going for a run or walk in your neighbourhood is still a good option to keep physically active, but only if you can practice physical distancing and keep at least two metres (six feet) away from others when outside. April 9, 2020 With increasing numbers of positive COVID-19 cases in communities across the country, governments and public health experts are continually identifying additional actions that we can all take to protect ourselves and others from becoming ill. As the situation evolves, we are also learning more about the virus everyday. We must all continue to follow instructions and wash our hands often, practice physical distancing if we must go out, avoid touching our faces, clean and disinfect commonly touched surfaces frequently and self-isolate if we feel unwell. The Public Health Agency of Canada (PHAC) has now advised that wearing a non-medical mask, such as a homemade cloth mask, is an additional measure that we can take to protect others in our community from becoming ill. Non-medical masks can help to reduce the risk of others coming into contact with respiratory droplets. Please refer to additional information on wearing a mask posted at   and follow   on how to do so safely. April 8, 2020 As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to unfold globally, we have been inundated with information from a variety of sources such as television, radio and social media (e.g., Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, etc.). With so much material available to us, it is sometimes difficult to separate accurate information from false information. It is very important to stay informed and up to date with the most credible evidence possible so that you can protect yourself and others in our community. We continue to share information with you as it is available. In addition to our web page,  , and online resources, please be sure to refer only to credible sources of information such as the  ,  ,   and  . Staying informed and following the direction and guidance of reliable sources is the best way to stop the spread of COVID-19 in our community and #FlattenThe Curve. April 7, 2020 We know that COVID-19 is spreading throughout our community and residents with no travel history or known direct contact with positive cases are getting ill. We are continuously assessing our actions and monitoring cases to identify where we can do more. I have now taken more progressive action to protect the health of Durham Region residents. Using my legal authority under the Health Protection and Promotion Act, I have issued an order that requires anyone that has tested positive for COVID-19, or anyone who has had contact with someone who has COVID-19, to self-isolate for 14 days or longer, if directed by public health staff. Those that do not follow this order can face a fine of up to $5,000 a day. For more information and certain exceptions, please visit  . We have seen around the world how fast this virus can spread. We must all work together to keep each other healthy and safe. Please do your part and stay home when you have been instructed to self-isolate. April 6, 2020 It’s spring time and we’re finally starting to see milder temperatures. Understandably, everyone wants to spend time outside; but during these unprecedented times, we all must remember to keep our distance when going outside. On March 30, the Government of Ontario extended the Declaration of Emergency and issued a new emergency order to close all outdoor recreational amenities such as playgrounds and sports fields. Social gatherings of more than five people are also prohibited at this time. To protect yourselves and the health of our children, please respect the provincial orders and do not use play structures, basketball courts or any outdoor recreational amenities. When going outside for a walk, keep at least two metres (6 feet) away from others and remind your children to do the same. We all need to do our part to #FlattenTheCurve and help stop the spread of COVID-19 in our community. April 3, 2020 Our public health nurses and epidemiologists are continuously monitoring and tracking new and existing COVID-19 cases, so that residents are better informed of the status of COVID-19 in our community. Our new dashboard, the Durham Region COVID-19 Data Tracker, shows the number of COVID-19 cases in Durham Region by status (home isolation, hospitalized, resolved, deceased), municipality, age and gender. This resource also displays the number of new cases and cumulative cases by reported date and onset date, and is a very useful tool to keep up-to-date on the Health Department’s COVID-19 response. This information will help us to see if our actions such as social/physical distancing and self-isolation are helping to "flatten the curve", or if we need to do more. The information on the dashboard will be updated daily. Please visit us at   often and follow us on   or   for the latest updates. The COVID-19 Data Tracker was created with the assistance of the Region of Durham’s Corporate Services – Information Technology Division and the Data, Mapping & Graphics Group within the Planning & Economic Development Department. April 2, 2020 Please protect yourself and others by self-isolating if you have been instructed to do so. Self-isolating will help prevent the spread of COVID-19 to your loved ones and within our community. Anyone who begins to feel unwell (fever, new cough, sore throat or difficulty breathing), is returning from travel, or has been given instructions to self-isolate by their health care provider, public health, or their workplace must self-isolate for at least 14 days. It is also recommended that anyone over 70-years old and individuals who are immunocompromised should self-isolate to protect themselves. Self-isolating means staying home and avoiding all contact with others. This means not even leaving your home to get essentials from the pharmacy or your local grocery store. If you find yourself in this situation, reach out to a family member, neighbour or friend to pick up a few essential items or ask your local pharmacy about delivery options for necessary prescription medication. Remember to keep at least two metres (six feet) away from individuals who are delivering essentials to you. Please visit   for a list of community agencies that can support residents who are alone or need help. April 1, 2020 While the COVID-19 pandemic is unlike any situation we have experienced before, our emergency planning and pandemic preparedness activities have helped to ensure that we are ready to respond to this public health emergency. We have a robust Emergency Master Plan, highly-skilled, trained and knowledgeable staff, and strong partnerships within the community which have helped us mobilize and coordinate our resources to keep community members informed and safe. We are always learning from our experiences and make the necessary adjustments and improvements to protect the health of our residents. Although our efforts are currently focused on managing and responding to COVID-19, we continue to act on critical public health concerns, health hazards and other infectious and communicable disease outbreaks. We constantly assess our capacity and resource needs to ensure continuity of essential services. The health and safety of Durham Region residents is our number one priority. March 31, 2020 The health and safety of Durham Region residents is our number one priority. At the Health Department, staff are working very hard to minimize the spread of COVID-19 in Durham Region. We do this by keeping local residents and community partners informed, monitoring and managing positive cases, facilitating testing for priority individuals, responding to inquiries, and developing health education resources. We also provide advice to Region of Durham and local area municipalities based on evidence, federal/provincial guidelines and local data, so that municipal/community leaders can make the important decisions that will help protect the health and well-being of our community. The situation not only changes daily, but often hourly. We continue to be engaged with our provincial partners so that we can share important information with residents as quickly as possible, to ensure that we continue to support you in this time of uncertainty. The COVID-19 declared emergency has been terminated and the Ontario Regulation 50/20 (Declaration of Emergency) has been revoked. It has been been replaced with the  . The   and the Ontario Ministry of Health have advised against all travel outside of Canada. The Government of Canada has issued a  . Please access this site for up to date information regarding travel to and from Canada. Travellers returning from travel outside of Canada are required to:  Individuals who have travelled outside of Canada and are part of a workplace that is essential to daily living (e.g. healthcare) may be permitted to return to work if they are not experiencing any symptoms. Please check with your employer prior to returning to work.  Individuals who have travelled outside of Ontario, but within Canada are not subject to mandatory quarantine, but should self-monitor for 14 days upon returning to Ontario.  COVID-19 fact sheets The Ministry of Health has developed an information sheet about COVID-19 to inform Ontarians about the virus, how they can protect themselves and what to do if they think they have contracted COVID-19. Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that cause illness in humans ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases. A novel coronavirus is a new strain that has not been previously identified in humans. In some cases, illness caused by novel coronavirus can be mild. In more severe cases, the novel coronavirus can cause pneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome, severe influenza-like illness, kidney failure and even death. Symptoms list: Accessing your test results If you have an Ontario Health Card COVID-19 test results can be accessed online through the  . If you do not have an Ontario Health Card or you are unable to access your result online, please call the Durham Health Connection Line at 905-668-2020 or 1-800-841-2729. On May 13, the case definition for COVID-19 was updated to include multisystem inflammatory vasculitis as an atypical presentation in children. This inflammatory illness has recently been reported in a small number of children worldwide in relation to the COVID-19 pandemic. Some of the symptoms associated with this illness include persistent fever, abdominal pain, gastrointestinal symptoms (including nausea, vomiting and diarrhea) as well as rash. This multisystem inflammatory vasculitis has symptoms that may also occur in Kawasaki disease (an illness that causes inflammation of the arteries). Parents should contact their health care providers if their children experience these symptoms. At this time the Ontario Ministry of Health guidance has not identified COVID-toes as an atypical symptom in children. COVID toes refers to skin findings observed in some individuals with COVID-19, characterized by swollen, painful and/or itchy lesions on the feet, toes and fingers. Please consult with your health care provider if you have concerns about your child’s health. Learn more about  . All Durham residents need to be aware of their underlying medical conditions and seek medical attention if there are changes from their regular baseline level. To reduce the spread of germs, including COVID-19 and the flu we recommend that you: Self-isolation is a strategy used to prevent COVID-19 from spreading to others. Individuals self-isolating must stay home, and limit time spent with others. While self-isolating individuals should not go to work, school, use public transportation, or go to other public areas (e.g. malls, restaurants). The following individuals are being advised to self-isolate and monitor for signs and symptoms of COVID-19. Durham Region Health Department works closely with individuals who have been diagnosed with COVID-19. This is done to help identify potential risk for other community members who may have had contact with the person diagnosed with COVID-19 while they were ill. This includes identifying and assessing the risk of exposure for individuals (e.g. health care providers who provided care for the individuals while they were ill) and community settings (e.g. clinic waiting rooms, public transit etc.). The Health Department is working collaboratively with local hospitals and health care providers to streamline processes for assessment and testing for COVID-19. For health care settings, there is specific guidance from Ontario’s Ministry of Health . What is physical distancing? poster (  |  ) Practise physical distancing poster (  |  ) Download our handwashing poster (  |  ) Contact Us © 2017 Durham Region, 605 Rossland Road East, Whitby, Ontario L1N 6A3, Canada, Telephone: 905-668-7711, Toll-Free: 1-800-372-1102 