Actions to protect Albertans and prevent the spread of novel coronavirus. Alberta is now in Stage 2 of relaunch. Albertans can and should confidently support Alberta businesses, while continuing to act responsibly and following all public health measures.     As Alberta reopens, some regions may need to put additional measures in place to address local outbreaks. Learn more about the regional relaunch status in your area and sign up to be notified if there is a change in your area.    All Albertans have a responsibility to  . Take steps to protect yourself and others: Albertans are encouraged to wear non-medical masks in public when it's difficult to maintain physical distancing of 2 metres at all times. Free masks will be available at all A&W, McDonald's Canada and Tim Horton locations starting July 13. Wearing a homemade or non-medical mask is another tool to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. It hasn’t been proven that masks protect the person wearing it, but it can help protect people from being exposed to your germs Isolation can help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Under public health order, you are legally required to isolate for: Events and gatherings can be larger in Stage 2 Starting June 12, more businesses can resume operations as part of Stage 2 of Alberta's relaunch strategy. COVID-19 symptoms can be mild and are similar to influenza and other respiratory illnesses. Alberta has one of the highest testing rates in the world. Testing is a critical element of  . Testing is now available to all Albertans, whether they have COVID-19 symptoms or not. The following groups will continue to be prioritized for testing: COVID-19 is transmitted though tiny droplets of liquid produced by people who have the virus. These droplets spread by: People who have COVID-19 can spread it to others before they start to feel sick. COVID-19 is not widely spread by being airborne, which means it doesn’t stay in the air long and won’t go very far. But if you are too close to someone with COVID-19 you can get sick by breathing in air that contains droplets with the virus. We think the virus generally only survives for a few hours on a surface or object, but it may be possible for it to survive several days under some conditions. COVID-19 can cause serious respiratory illness. Because it is a new virus with no treatment or immunity in people, it is important for people with any symptoms to stay home and isolate to keep it from spreading. Most people – about 80% – recover without needing special treatment. However, it can cause serious illness in some, and there is a risk of death in severe cases. While we are still learning about COVID-19, serious illness appears to develop more often in people who are older or have pre-existing conditions, such as: There is no vaccine or proven treatment for COVID-19 at this time. The virus is new and different, so needs its own vaccine – which researchers around the world are now working to develop. Supportive care is being used to treat patients with COVID-19 and some medications are being tested to see if they can help severely ill patients. Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses. Some cause respiratory illness in people, ranging from mild common colds to severe illnesses. Novel coronaviruses, like COVID-19, are new strains of the virus that have not been previously identified in humans. This means people have no immunity against it, and it has no vaccine or proven treatment. In some ways, COVID-19 is similar to influenza (also known as the flu), but there are also key differences. Because COVID-19 can cause serious illness, it is critical to keep it from spreading by having  . The COVID-19 pandemic can have a significant impact on mental health. Online resources are available if you need advice on handling stressful situations or ways to talk to children. If you need to talk, call the 24-hour help lines: If you or someone you know is at risk of family or sexual violence, help is available. Chat live online with the   for support in English (8 am – 8 pm) Children are at a higher risk for neglect and abuse during times of uncertainty and crisis. Call the 24-hour child abuse hotline at   (5437) if you think a child is being abused, neglected or sexually exploited. We’re receiving two types of complaints related to consumer exploitation resulting from COVID-19: The   prevents suppliers from grossly raising prices with no explanation beyond what is reasonable for goods that are readily available. Unlike commercial sales, the act does not explicitly cover private sales. We urge all Albertans to act with consideration and caution and to find ways to help support each other in this time. If you see prices for products or services in Alberta skyrocket because of COVID-19, you can report it through our   or by calling 1-877-427-4088. Cyber security incidents involving malware and fraudulent activities, including identity theft, are being reported across Alberta in the wake of COVID-19. Requirements around rent increases, late fees, payment plans, and landlord entry are in place for residential and mobile homes site tenants and landlords due to COVID-19. Residential education property tax rates will be frozen at last year’s level – reversing the 3.4% population and inflation increase added in Budget 2020. This will save households $55 million. We are implementing a 6 month, interest free moratorium on Alberta student loan payments for all Albertans in the process of repaying these loans. Residential customers can defer electricity and natural gas bill payments until June 18, 2020 to ensure no one will be cut off, regardless of the service provider. Albertans may be eligible for financial supports through the federal government: Nearly one million Albertans act as caregivers for loved ones experiencing challenges related to illness, disability or aging. These caregivers need support too. Caregivers can get psychosocial and other peer and community supports by calling the toll-free caregiver advisor line at   or going online to  . $30 million has been committed to charities, non-profits and civil society organizations to support their COVID-19 response. More information on  . Disability service providers play an essential role in supporting people with disabilities during the COVID-19 pandemic. For more information see  . There is currently no evidence to suggest: However, there is always an increased risk of preterm or stillbirth with any significant maternal illness. Talk to your health care provider if you have questions or are worried about leaving your home to attend appointments. If you aren’t feeling well,  For more information, read the AHS  . Worship leaders are encouraged to continue holding worship services and funerals remotely, but can offer multiple services to reduce attendance to 50 people or one-third of normal attendance, whichever is smaller and whichever ensures physical distancing will be maintained. For more information, see    Shelters and temporary or transitional housing facilities provide an essential service in Alberta during this time. We are working with community-based organizations, homeless shelters and women’s shelters to: $30 million has been committed to adult homeless shelters and women’s emergency shelters to support their COVID-19 response. Government issued public health orders to prevent the spread of respiratory viruses, including COVID-19, among seniors and vulnerable groups for the following settings: Volunteers play many important roles in communities across our province. Volunteers and volunteer organizations must follow all necessary precautions to prevent the spread of COVID-19 to protect themselves and those they help.   In-person classes may resume, with restrictions, effective May 14, 2020. In the cities of Calgary and Brooks, in-person classes may not resume until June 1, 2020. Post-secondary institutions are encouraged to continue to hold classes remotely and limit in-person attendance on campus as much as possible. Most schools are making decisions about course delivery for this fall. Contact your post-secondary institution, or visit their website, for more detailed information. :  to the Alberta Bits and Pieces Program if you're interested in supporting the COVID-19 response. If there is a requirement for your product or service, you will be contacted directly. The program is named after the “bits and pieces program” established by Canada’s Minister of Munitions and Supply during the Second World War, C. D. Howe. The program coordinated innovative production and procurement efforts from across the Canadian economy to support the war effort. The Alberta government is taking action to protect the safety, security and economic interests of Albertans amidst the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic.  (May 31-June 6) Alberta’s public health officials are carefully monitoring the situation in Canada and around the world. They are: Some Alberta government office locations have temporarily closed to the public. To find out how to access affected government services, visit the program's web page or call Alberta Connect at 310-4455 from 8 am to 6 pm, Monday to Friday. Registry agents are providing select services by phone, secure email, fax or mail to reduce the number of Albertans who need to visit in person. The following registry services are available through alternative delivery methods: All Albertans who want to take a driver's road test can now book online as the province continues to open up the economy and access to personal protective equipment (PPE) increases. See   for more information. Drivers who require a medical evaluation to apply or renew their licence now have 90 days from the date of renewal or issuance to provide their completed medical form. This will reduce the current strain on the healthcare system. Medically, high risk drivers will still be required to present their medical evaluation at the time of their application or renewal. See   for more information. In keeping with public gathering restrictions, deadlines are suspended for corporations, partnerships, cooperatives and non-profit organizations to hold annual general meetings and file their annual returns These groups will remain active in Alberta, and will not have their corporations, partnerships, cooperatives or non-profit organizations dissolved due to failing to file annual returns. The Alberta Court of Queen’s Bench, the Provincial Court of Alberta and the Alberta Court of Appeal are limiting services to essential and urgent functions. There are changes at the court because of COVID-19. Read more at  . There are changes at the court because of COVID-19. Read more at  . There are changes at the court because of COVID-19. Read more at  . Regular updates from Dr. Deena Hinshaw, Alberta's chief medical officer of health. Alberta COVID-19 Information sheets (PDF): Government of Canada COVID-19 updates: 