Updated weekday evenings See all new cases around the world See the U.S. hot spots  because mortgage rates have   Refinancing requests have pushed mortgage applications to some of the highest levels since 2008, so be prepared to get in line. But defaults are also up, so if you’re thinking about buying a home, be aware that some lenders have tightened their standards. It is unlikely that many schools will return to a normal schedule this fall, requiring the grind of  ,   and   to continue. California’s two largest public school districts — Los Angeles and San Diego — said on July 13, that  , citing concerns that surging coronavirus infections in their areas pose too dire a risk for students and teachers. Together, the two districts enroll some 825,000 students. They are the largest in the country so far to abandon plans for even a partial physical return to classrooms when they reopen in August. For other districts, the solution won’t be an all-or-nothing approach.  , including the nation’s largest, New York City, are devising   that involve spending some days in classrooms and other days online. There’s no national policy on this yet, so check with your municipal school system regularly to see what is happening in your community. The coronavirus  , infecting people as they inhale, mounting scientific evidence suggests. This risk is highest in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation, and may help explain super-spreading events reported in meatpacking plants, churches and restaurants.   via these tiny droplets, or aerosols, compared with larger droplets that are expelled when a sick person coughs or sneezes, or transmitted through contact with contaminated surfaces, said Linsey Marr, an aerosol expert at Virginia Tech. Aerosols are released even when a person without symptoms exhales, talks or sings, according to Dr. Marr and more than 200 other experts, who  . Common symptoms   Some of these symptoms overlap with those of the flu, making detection difficult, but runny noses and stuffy sinuses are less common.   added chills, muscle pain, sore throat, headache and a new loss of the sense of taste or smell as symptoms to look out for. Most people fall ill five to seven days after exposure, but symptoms may appear in as few as two days or as many as 14 days. So far, the evidence seems to show it does. A widely cited   published in April suggests that people are most infectious about two days before the onset of coronavirus symptoms and estimated that 44 percent of new infections were a result of transmission from people who were not yet showing symptoms. Recently, a top expert at the World Health Organization stated that transmission of the coronavirus by people who did not have symptoms was “very rare,”   Lawmakers will have to bridge significant policy gaps to reach an election-year agreement on how to best provide relief to businesses and families still reeling from the pandemic. The two issues are linked, but during the coronavirus pandemic the relationship is not always simple. Pooled testing, which can make one coronavirus test as powerful as five, is particularly useful when the infection rate is low. Its use could free up more tests for places where the virus is more widespread. The coronavirus pandemic has left ordinary people debating case counts, positivity rates and hospitalization numbers in hopes of understanding the virus’s path. Something that’s supposed to cover our mouths speaks volumes about how crazy some people have gotten. As New York cautiously reopens in the shadow of a potential second wave of infections, home buyers and sellers are racing to complete the almost impossible task of closing on time and safely moving. Plus, how Fred Trump shaped his son’s approach to empathy: This is your morning tip sheet. Cases are inevitable. Schools need to plan now. In-person classes without a mask requirement are scheduled to begin on Friday in Jefferson, worrying some parents, students and teachers as the state confronts the coronavirus. The magazine’s Ethicist columnist on balancing workplace safety against personal privacy, and more. But you’re scared about doing it during a pandemic. Here’s our F.A.Q. on changing homes (and cities) safely. As older adults face mortality during the pandemic, lawyers and wealth advisers are using color-coded documents and flowcharts to help them understand estate planning. Seek diversion from what’s happening in your head and in our world, if just for a moment of recharge and reflection. It works. Despite the challenges of at-home learning, some parents are considering teaching kids at home this fall. Working from home creates economic winners and losers. It can benefit highly skilled employees but depress others’ wages and make it hard to organize. As the pandemic destroys paychecks, migrant workers are sending less money home, threatening an increase in poverty from South Asia and sub-Saharan Africa to Eastern Europe and Latin America. Schools may not reopen, and the “holiday” cuts into government revenue. But during a pandemic, states may be thinking, why not offer a bit of relief? For millions of people, making a living is a cobbled-together proposition. That leaves a hole in the safety net when things turn bad. The CARES Act temporarily protects millions of renters from being kicked out of their homes for nonpayment. Filings aren’t supposed to resume until after Friday. Official data for second-quarter economic output arrives Thursday, and while it will be unquestionably bad, there are different ways of looking at it. By  A Times survey of hundreds of schools represents the most comprehensive look at the toll the virus has already taken on the country’s colleges and universities. By  The president lamented that his poll numbers were lower than those of his top science advisers. “It can only be my personality,” he said. By  Another chapter in President Trump’s quest to shape the future of the J. Edgar Hoover Building seemed over as Republicans distanced themselves from the administration’s $1.75 billion demand. By  The Federal Reserve will backstop credit markets through 2020, and is expected to pledge continued economic help at its Wednesday meeting. By  Daily new cases appear to be leveling off — though at an extremely high level. By  La pandemia del coronavirus y los aranceles impuestos por el gobierno de Donald Trump perjudicaron al mercado del vino francés. Ahora el destino de la cosecha es convertirse en desinfectante para manos. By  The studio agreed to a deal with AMC, the world’s biggest theater chain, to shorten the exclusive window for new movies to 17 days from 90, likely changing the way Hollywood does business. By  The activists, charged with violating coronavirus regulations forbidding mass gatherings, were released on bail after being held for a week. By  Declassified U.S. intelligence accuses Moscow of pushing propaganda through alternative websites as Russia refines techniques used in 2016. By  Advertisement Advertisement 