FOLLOW ON Advertisement 
 
 
 
 
 
 SHARE TORONTO -- 
	The U.S. could “virtually eliminate” the coronavirus in a “matter of weeks” if the country enacts several strict measures to bring down the number of new cases, according to a former health official under the Obama administration. 
	Andy Slavitt, the Acting Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) during much of former president Barack Obama’s second term, said it’s possible for the U.S. to return to a “reasonably normal” existence, if “we want to.” 
  on Sunday, Slavitt laid out how the country could completely reopen in October, if they “threw the kitchen sink at COVID-19” right away. 
 ” comprises six major points of action that would need to be implemented right away: 
	While he acknowledged it would be a “tough few weeks,” Slavitt said Americans would still be able to be outside, enjoy nature, and gather safely with friends. 
	“Our grandparents who lived through a decade long depression, a 6 year world war, or whatever hardship they faced in their country would tell us we would make it,”  . 
	After the lockdown measures have been lifted, Slavitt didn’t promise the virus would be completely gone, but he said testing and contact tracing would be much more manageable. 
	“While we do this, what else happens? Well our nurses & doctors can catch their breath, recover & go back to healing our other issues. We hug our parents again. Our scientists can work on vaccines they can get right & safe. They can be speedy without rushing,” he said. 
	Slavitt said people will still have to take precautions, such as wearing masks in larger settings and elevators, but the sacrifice will be worth it if they can get the outbreak under control. 
	“We will do this. There is no other way. The question is when. The question is who will convince us. The question is the leadership it takes. But there’s not much question if we should,”  .  
			We can be back to a reasonably normal existence: schools, travel, job growth, safer nursing homes & other settings. 
 
			And we could do it in a matter of weeks. If we want to. 2/ Pedestrians wear masks as they walk in front of a sign reminding the public to take steps to stop the spread of coronavirus, July 23, 2020, in Glendale, Calif. (AP Photo/Chris Pizzello) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SHARE Advertisement 
        Listen and subscribe to get a daily fix on the latest political news and issues.
                       
        Listen and subscribe to get a weekly update with the newsmakers who matter.
                       
        A check-in on the public mood of Canadians with hosts Michael Stittle and Nik Nanos. 
                       Use of this Website assumes acceptance of   and  © 2020 All rights reserved. 