Sign In The Star Edition Change Location Sign In The Star Edition Change Location  This copy is for your personal non-commercial use only. To order
    presentation-ready copies of Toronto Star content for distribution
    to colleagues, clients or customers, or inquire about
    permissions/licensing, please go to:     Ontario reports 111 new cases Donald Trump Jr.’s Twitter account temporarily suspended Many Canadian parents on fence on school, poll suggests Toronto has reported just a single new COVID-19 infection in the last 24 hours.  The update, which was announced in Toronto Public Health’s  , marks the fewest new cases seen in any single day in the city since March 10 — well before the pandemic reached its first peak in Ontario in mid-April. Case counts have fallen sharply in the city this month. According to Toronto Public Health, the city has seen a total of 15,338 infected patients, of whom 13,785 have since recovered. Another two patients have died since Monday’s update, the health unit says.  Ontario Premier Doug Ford says there are no plans to pull any regions back a step in the province’s economic reopening process despite new outbreaks in some areas that have moved into Stage 3. Ford says the new cases don’t amount to a serious spike and he will rely on the advice of the province’s health-care command table in making any decisions related to the COVID-19 recovery plan. The province is slated to make an announcement Wednesday on when Windsor-Essex, Toronto and nearby Peel Region will progress to Stage 3, which allows nearly every business and public space to reopen with health restrictions in place and increases the permissible size of social gatherings.  The Miami Marlins’ coronavirus outbreak   Dr. Anthony Fauci said, as the number of their players testing positive rose to 15. The Marlins received positive test results for four additional players Tuesday, a person familiar with the situation told The Associated Press. The person declined to be identified because the results had not been publicly released. Nine players on the 30-man roster, two taxi squad players and two staff members tested positive earlier, stranding the team in Philadelphia and prompting the postponement of four MLB games. The Marlins underwent another round of tests Tuesday morning. Their outbreak raised anew questions about MLB’s attempts to conduct a season outside of bubble environment, which the NFL also has opted not to create for its season. “This could put it in danger,” Fauci, the nation’s top infectious disease expert, said of the outbreak. “I don’t believe they need to stop, but we just need to follow this and see what happens with other teams on a day-by-day basis.” Toronto medical officer of health Dr. Eileen de Villa is recommending strict measures for bars when they reopen, including mandatory staff screening, customer contact logs and table size limits.  Canada’s chief medical officer Dr. Theresa Tam says active discussions are taking place to potentially pre-order COVID-19 vaccine doses for Canadians. Tam says an independent vaccine task force is advising the government on options for Canada’s choice of vaccine, including exploring the possibility of manufacturing a potential pandemic cure at home. Tam was addressing concerns that Canadians will have to get in line behind other countries to wait for the COVID-19 vaccine. One senator and some health-care professionals are asking why Ottawa is delaying a decision on the $35-million pitch by Toronto-based Providence Therapeutics to begin human trials of a new, experimental vaccine technology that has been heavily funded in the United States. Providence says it could deliver five million doses of a vaccine to Canadians by mid-2021 if its trials bear fruit, but it can’t move forward with testing or manufacturing without funding. Tam also says there has been a worrisome rise in COVID-19 infections that may have been fuelled by Canada Day parties. Health officials on Prince Edward Island say there are no active cases of COVID-19 in the province. Dr. Heather Morrison, the chief medical officer of health, said today all 36 cases confirmed by authorities since the start of the pandemic are considered recovered. Morrison adds that residents of long-term care homes can now name someone to assist in their care, such as a spouse, relative or friend. They can also go for a drive with that person. Long-term care residents are still only permitted two visitors at a time, but the list of designated visitors is no longer limited to six people. Morrison says she is encouraged by the number of Islanders wearing masks, adding that people still need to observe other health directives such as physical distancing and regular hand-washing.  Quebec is reporting an additional 169 COVID-19 cases today in addition to three new deaths linked to the virus. The number of new infections has remained stable in recent days, and the provincial government said Monday the majority of cases have involved people in the 15-to-34 age bracket. Of the deaths reported today, two were new and one occurred before July 20, bringing the total to 5,670. The number of hospitalizations in the province continued to decline, down to 193 patients from 200 a day earlier. Of those, eight patients are in intensive care, an increase of one. The province has had a total of 58,897 COVID-19 cases, and it performed 9,442 tests on Sunday — the last day for which numbers are available. Ontario is reporting 111 new cases of COVID-19, and four new deaths related to the novel coronavirus. The total number of cases now stands at 38,910, which includes 2,768 deaths and 34,567 resolved cases. There were 106 new resolved cases reported. Health Minister Christine Elliott says 27 of the province’s 34 public health units are reporting five or fewer cases, with 16 reporting none. She says Ottawa accounts for 25 of them, with 22 more in Windsor-Essex and six in Toronto. The provincial government said it was able to complete 17,334 tests the previous day. It also said 96 people are in hospital — up 14 — because of the virus, including 31 people in intensive care and 18 on ventilators. Donald Trump Jr.’s Twitter account has been temporarily suspended after the president’s eldest son shared a video of a group of people touting hydroxychloroquine as an effective treatment for Covid-19. The Food and Drug Administration last month revoked emergency use authorization for the drug after determining it may have deadly side effects, and the World Health Organization also said it would discontinue its own tests of hydroxychloroquine. After an adviser to Trump Jr. reported the suspension, Twitter issued a statement saying the move was not permanent, but that the tweet “requires deletion because it violates our rules (sharing misinformation on COVID-19), and the account will have limited functionality for 12 hours.” The New York Yankees-Philadelphia Phillies games was postponed Tuesday for the second straight day, The Associated Press reports. The Phillies were waiting for complete results from their COVID-19 tests following an outbreak among the Miami Marlins, who played a weekend series in Philadelphia.  The Yankees are scheduled to host the Phillies on Wednesday and Thursday. More than a dozen Marlins players and staff members tested positive for COVID-19 in an outbreak that stranded the team in Philadelphia on Sunday, disrupting MLB’s schedule in the early days of the pandemic-delayed season. Miami’s home opener against Baltimore was postponed, as was Tuesday’s finale of the two-game series at Marlins Park.  U.S. consumer confidence tumbled in July to a reading of 92.6 as coronavirus infections spread in many parts of the country. The Conference Board, a New York-based research organization, reported Tuesday that its consumer confidence index fell from a June reading of 98.3. The weakness came from a drop in the expectations index, which measures consumer views about the short-term outlook for income, business and labour market conditions. The consumer confidence index is closely watched for signals it can send about future consumer spending, which accounts for 70 per cent of economic activity. North American stock markets dipped in early morning trading while gold settled down after setting another record high. The S&P/TSX composite index was down 53.09 points at 16,108.24. In New York, the Dow Jones industrial average was down 108.20 points at 26,476.57. The S&P 500 index was down 7.49 points at 3,231.92, while the Nasdaq composite was down 42.34 points at 10,493.93. Donald Trump Jr.’s Twitter account has been temporarily suspended after he posted a video of doctors talking about hydroxychloroquine. The number of people looking for employment through Nigeria’s biggest recruiting website has jumped five-fold since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, highlighting the struggle faced by many in Africa’s largest economy. “Typically we have about 10,000 active job-seekers a week,” Hilda Kragha, Jobberman’s chief executive officer, said in interview in Lagos, the country’s financial capital. “During this pandemic, we have been having over 55,000, which means more people are looking for jobs.” Like many countries Nigeria has been hit hard economically after implementing lockdowns to contain the spread of coronavirus. Africa’s top oil producer was also reeling from a collapse in crude prices earlier in the year and is suffering from rampant dollar shortages. Combined they have exacerbated the strain on a wide range of businesses in a country that has long struggled to provide jobs for its young population. The data from Jobberman, which recruits mainly white-collar employees and doesn’t track those looking for non-skilled, blue-collar work, chimes with official estimates that sees unemployment in the nation of more than 200 million soaring to 34 per cent by the end of the year from 23 per cent in 2019. A week after appearing to project a more serious tone about the coronavirus, President Donald Trump is back to pushing unproven claims that an anti-malaria drug is an effective treatment and challenging the credibility of the nation’s leading infectious disease expert. Dr. Anthony Fauci pushed back Tuesday, saying he will keep doing his job. Numerous studies, meanwhile, have shown that the drug, hydroxychloroquine, is not an effective treatment for COVID-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus. And the U.S. Food and Drug Administration recently withdrew an order that allowed the drug’s use as a emergency treatment for COVID-19. Yet overnight, after returning from a trip to North Carolina where he promoted efforts to develop a COVID-19 vaccine, Trump retweeted a series of tweets advocating for hydroxychloroquine. The president also shared a post from the Twitter account for a podcast hosted by Steve Bannon, a former top White House adviser to Trump, accusing Fauci of misleading the public over hydroxychloroquine. Fauci, a leading member of the White House coronavirus task force, pushed back Tuesday during an appearance on ABC’s “Good Morning America.” “I go along with the FDA,” said Fauci, the longtime director of the National Institute for Allergy and Infectious Diseases. “The overwhelming prevailing clinical trials that have looked at the efficacy of hydroxychloroquine have indicated that it is not effective in coronavirus disease.” Real Madrid forward Mariano has tested positive for the coronavirus, the club said Tuesday. The announcement came as the team returned to practice ahead of its Champions League match against Manchester City on Aug. 7. Real Madrid lost at home 2-1 in the first leg of the round-of-16 series. Madrid said Mariano was in “perfect health condition” and was following health protocols. He was confined at his home, the club said. The entire Madrid squad was tested for COVID-19 on Monday. The players had been on a break of almost 10 days after winning the Spanish league title — the club’s first in three years. The club said players “returned to work under strict health safety guidelines because of the COVID-19 pandemic.” The 26-year-old Mariano played only a few matches with Madrid this season. His last had been against Getafe in the Spanish league on July 2.  The French government has maintained a maximum capacity of 5,000 fans in stadiums until the end of August amid the coronavirus pandemic. French sports minister Roxana Maracineanu says the decision was taken because France has seen an increase in coronavirus cases recently. But Maracineanu adds that local officials will have the authority to increase the capacity at some events from Aug. 15 if they can obtain special dispensation and observe strict health and safety protocol. Only 2,805 fans attended the French Cup final between Paris Saint-Germain and Saint-Etienne last Friday but the number was low because Saint-Etienne fans did not use their allocation of 900 seats at Stade de France. PSG faces Lyon in the League Cup final at the same stadium on Friday. The co-founders of WE Charity are to testify before a House of Commons committee Tuesday as part of a parliamentary probe into a $912-million student-volunteer program. Brothers Craig and Marc Kielburger, who helped found the organization two decades ago, are scheduled to speak this afternoon with MPs on the finance committee. In a statement last week, the brothers said they agreed to testify to set the record straight about their involvement in the Canada Student Service Grant program. WE Charity backed out of administering the program in early July amid a controversy over the Liberals’ awarding the organization a sole-sourced contract despite its close ties to Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. The controversy for the government has only deepened since, as the federal ethics watchdog has launched probes of Trudeau and Finance Minister Bill Morneau over their involvement in cabinet decisions despite WE’s having paid Trudeau’s family members speaking fees, and Morneau’s familial ties to the group. Further compounding problems for the finance minister was his admission last week that he had just repaid the organization more than $41,000 in travel expenses for WE-sponsored trips he and his family took three years ago. Pfizer reported a 32 per cent plunge in second-quarter profit, mainly due to the global coronavirus pandemic limiting marketing of and new prescriptions for its medicines. Pfizer had predicted in April that the virus would keep both patients and company sales representatives away from doctors and hospitals. Still, the biggest U.S. drugmaker by revenue posted a solid profit and nudged up parts of its 2020 financial forecast and reaffirmed the rest. The maker of the world’s top-selling vaccine, Prevnar 13 for preventing ear infections, pneumonia and related bacterial diseases, noted that the pandemic restricted doctor visits, prescriptions for new medicines and vaccination rates for many of its shots. However, it boosted sales of its medicines used to treat patients hospitalized with COVID-19. The new cases in the central city of Da Nang are the first confirmed to be locally transmitted in the country in over three months. Public transport into and out of Da Nang was cancelled. Over the weekend, thousands of mostly Vietnamese tourists cut short their summer holidays in the popular beach destination. The lockdown has dealt a hard blow to the city’ tourism industry, which was just being revived after earlier coronavirus cases mostly subsided at the end of April. Hotel guests quickly ended their stays and cancelled upcoming trips upon the news of the first case, one hotelier said on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak to the media. NHL hockey returns today after a months-long hiatus due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Montreal Canadiens are in Toronto to take on the Maple Leafs and the Edmonton Oilers meet the Calgary Flames at Rogers Place as part of today’s three-game exhibition schedule that kicks off Phase 4 of the league’s return-to-play plan. The Pittsburgh Penguins and Philadelphia Flyers square off in Toronto in today’s other game. Edmonton and Toronto are serving as hub cities for the 24 NHL teams that are returning to action, though the Canadiens and Flames are listed as the home teams tonight.  The biggest test yet of an experimental COVID-19 vaccine got underway Monday with the first of some 30,000 Americans rolling up their sleeves to receive shots created by the U.S. government as part of the all-out global race to stop the pandemic. The glimmer of hope came even as Google, in one of the gloomiest assessments of the coronavirus’s staying power from a major employer, decreed that most of its 200,000 employees and contractors should work from home through next June — a decision that could influence other big companies. Final-stage testing of the vaccine, developed by the National Institutes of Health and Moderna Inc., began with volunteers at numerous sites around the U.S. given either a real dose or a dummy without being told which. As the clock ticks down to September, a new poll suggests many Canadian parents are on the fence about whether to send their kids to school if and when classrooms are reopened. The poll by Leger and the Association for Canadian Studies comes as provincial governments are working on how to get students back into classrooms, most of which have been shuttered since mid-March due to COVID-19. Toronto is “very close” to securing federal funding so people who are have COVID-19 and risk infection other at home could soon self-isolate in a free room with food, laundry and Wi-Fi for up to two weeks. Dr. Eileen de Villa, Toronto’s senior public health official, is asking city council this week to authorize her to enter into an agreement with the federal government to fund a 140-room, city-run “isolation site.” The  , modelled on that of  , is aimed at lower-income people who get infected but, because of crowded living conditions and other factors, can’t ensure they won’t spread the virus to others. No site has yet been confirmed. The city estimates it would cost $12.7 million to operate a 140-room facility for one year.  Coun. Joe Cressy, chair of the Toronto Public Health, said Toronto is “very close” to getting federal funding, calling the project an excellent investment in preventing a major second wave of COVID-19. . With just 23 new COVID-19 infections reported in the region Monday, the GTA has seen the fewest new cases in any day in more than five months, according to the Star’s latest count. It’s been 131 days since March 18 — the last time the GTA’s five local health units reported fewer than 25 new infections, well before the worst of the pandemic took hold in Ontario. At the time, just a single Ontarian had yet died of virus; more than 40,000 in the province have been infected since. As of 5 p.m. Monday, Ontario’s regional health units are reporting a total of 40,873 confirmed or probable cases of COVID-19, including 2,799 deaths, up 150 cases in 24 hours.  As has been the case in recent days, the new infections reported Monday predominantly came outside the GTA. Inside the region, Toronto reported just five new cases Monday — its fewest since the second week of March — York and Durham regions one each, and Halton Region once again reported no new infections. Just Peel Region, which has seen case counts fall more slowly than elsewhere, reported in the double digits, with 16 new cases. Elsewhere, both Windsor-Essex — 41 cases — and Ottawa — 28 — continued to report the worst rates of new infection. Both health units have seen notable jumps in cases in July.  The Star’s count includes some patients reported as “probable” COVID-19 cases, meaning they have symptoms and contacts or travel history that indicate  , but have not yet received a positive lab test. The province also cautions its data, published daily at 10:30 a.m., may be  , saying that in the event of a discrepancy, “data reported by (the health units) should be considered the most up to date.” Copyright owned or licensed by Toronto Star Newspapers Limited. All
    rights reserved. Republication or distribution of this content is
    expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Toronto
    Star Newspapers Limited and/or its licensors. To order copies of
    Toronto Star articles, please go to:     