
		Every product was carefully curated by an Esquire editor. We may earn a commission from these links.

			 From   to  , these are the titles we've already dedicated hours to playing this year. Last year may not have gone down  , but hey, at least we got  . The 2010s, however, represented a step forward for the industry, with titles like   and the   series. Now, we’re midway into the first year of a new decade, and in a twilight year too. The console market is quickly shifting. Soon the   and   will be booted to the trash heap, and we’ll wish them farewell while welcoming in a super-powered generation of machines. The   is bringing heavy-duty tech that rivals the guts of even the strongest PC towers, and the   seems just as formidable. But fret not, the old consoles are going out with a bang in terms of new games. This year has been stacked with titles spanning all audiences, from plenty of action RPGs and first-person shooters, to some insanely narrative-driven games, to some equally artful and wacky indie projects. A new   (!!) and a sequel to  have proven that you can always rely on impressive triple-A outtings. Same goes for the always-innovative indie community, with a gem like  blessing our consoles. The previous-gen consoles' goodbye tour may be bittersweet, but with boundary-pushing titles like  and  , it has already been a great year. These are the 15 best video games that have been released in 2020 so far. (But if you’re still unhappy with this gaming slate, don't forget that we’ll still be blessed by the divine god   in due time.) 
 June 19  PS4  You have to give Naughty Dog credit: Its team had a nearly impossible chance of following up  , which was one of the most beloved games of the last decade. Not to mention, a beginning-to-end journey that was so satisfying that its fans were all but sure a sequel would ruin everything. Turns out, all those delays were well worth it:   is, at the very least, on par with the legend it followed, continuing Ellie’s story with the kind of unforgettable heart and heartbreak that we rarely see in video games.  April 10  PS4  This year we finally got to return to Midgar, and it was glorious. Sure, any game surrounded by this much hype was bound to have criticism heaped on it, but the remake is a masterful re-imagining of the title that redefined what an RPG could be.   introduced an engaging style of action RPG, both melding the party balancing system from traditional RPGs with more fluid, flashy combat, and overturning the turned-based system. By no means does the  remake replace the original. It instead does something even better: It creates what feels like a truly new experience.   March 20  Nintendo Switch  What’s left to say about  ? By now, you’ve likely settled into your forever life with your critter villagers, all of whom you’ve surely spent months cycling in and out so you could share an island with your favorites. So, grab an orange juice, sit next to Henry the frog by the lake you just cleared, and relax. Nice. Best game? Yeah, best game.    July 17  PS4  Easily a contender for my Game of the Year (at least until   comes out in a few weeks),   wasn't on my radar nearly as enough as it should have been before its launch (my bad), and now it's all I can play. It is a blend of stunning and non-exhausting open-world adventuring, intensely thoughtful combat, gorgeous landscapes, and in-depth story, peppered with homages to classic samurai cinema. The game is a perfect send-off for the PS4, really showing what this generation ultimately became by taking the tech to its absolute limit.   April 30  PS4, Xbox One, PC, Nintendo Switch This is how a legend returns in style.   is an honor to the classic beat ‘em up, and a brilliant expansion on a semi-forgotten genre. So far I’ve played it through about five times, and it's still not getting old. The combat is stylish and addictive, and the art style is drop dead gorgeous—everything a Sega fanboy could hope for. We’ve seen a lot of older titles get rebooted, especially by the killer indie studio DotEmu (which did  ,  , and more).  is a great game that continues in the spirit of the originals, setting a precedent for more forgotten retro titles to be revived in the future.   April 28  PS4, Xbox One, PC, Mac, Nintendo Switch  Team 17’s at it again with frantic, rage-inducing couch co-op. The folks who brought us  made the move into the home market with a game that is all about working with a team to pivot, angle, and position furniture. It is a blast. The concept may be simple, but rest assured it will have you feeling all sorts of fury at the execution. Couch co-op itself is often a forgotten form in gaming, but a personal favorite of mine. Nothing like having a few drinks and trying to coordinate with some friends.  March 5  PC, Nintendo Switch If you haven’t heard of  , the best way I can put it is this:  but better. It’s a perfectly handled detective flick with linear problem-solving and logic puzzles. It’s also a great change of pace that’s easily accessible for anyone who loves a good puzzle, a fun story, and well-written dialog.   stands apart as an immensely inventive and creative game in an industry that tends to favors doing, not thinking.  March 20  PS4, Xbox One, PC, Google Stadia, Nintendo Switch  Speaking of “doing, not thinking,”   is on the flip side.   hack, slash, chainsaw, and glory kill demons on your way through literal hell. This game is fast-paced, flashy, and everything that made those narc moms on ‘90s TV say, “Video games will rot your brain.” And it's amazing for it.   feels like what we hope a modern  would be, but so polished. It's amazing how far  as a series has been pushed since 1993. Folks, there's not a lot more to say here besides: Killing demons has never felt so damn good.  February 14  PS4 Ah,  . Why did you do it? If you haven’t heard,   gives its players nearly unprecedented tools to create  , which other users can try out once they’re finished. Yeah. So queue up  and you’ll find… “Wario Goes to McDonald’s.” Not your jam? There’s “Wario Gets Run Over By a Car.” In all fairness, we have seen some truly incredible games in  (check out  ). But really, most people are there for the memes. Aren’t we all?  March 11  Xbox One, PC  is one of the few 2020 Xbox exclusives out there, and it almost makes up for the lack of others. The  series kicked off back in 2015 with  , which in its own right was a beautiful platform adventure that yanked on your heartstrings through simplistic storytelling and world building. For , take everything  had going for it and multiply it by ten. It is a mesmerizing experience, featuring one of the best art styles and soundtracks of any game on this list.   March 23 PC A survival game? Not for the faint of heart. A survival game in virtual reality? Shit.  , which is set between  and  , is really a see-it-to-believe-it thing. But trust us, it’s the closest experience to our inevitable  , all-VR-everything lives we’ve ever had. So, go ahead: Chuck a grenade, watch it go boom, and try to avoid the nightmare monsters hurtling toward your face.   January 28 PS4, Xbox One, PC, Nintendo Switch Take   remove the controversy, add a layer of consistently hilarious dialogue, and you get  . It’s a game about exploration, which sounds like an early 2011 tagline, but in this case it's actually successful. I found myself playing co-op with my friends for hours. The game is for a pretty specific type of gamer, but that's okay. If you're looking for a title that's not going to force objectives down your throat and instead really let you do it your way, it's  . If you're just keen on having a good time, look up some of its cutscenes and dialogue, because those alone are more than worth it.  July 17 Nintendo Switch I’m a sucker for  . People actually have started calling me Paper Cam, probably because I carry a giant hammer around, am paper thin, and always move in the style of turn-based combat.   is a wonderfully inventive return to the   style we all love. After a series of missteps (looking at you,  ), the new mechanics and simplified tone feel like an homage to the flat glory days of the N64 and GameCube era. This game is comfort food through and through, and that's something we all could use right now.   June 5  Nintendo Switch -freaking- . It’s got everything: chess, blackjack, president, poker, checkers, Connect 4, mancala—a full collection of, you guessed it, 51 games. After getting absolutely thrashed by my editor in mancala, I had picked up   to play, learn, and plan for my next strike. Honestly, it is just really well-polished and an all-around good time, especially if you want something a little slower and more accessible. My pandemic goal is to become a full master of all 51 games, and even the bonus piano.  July 23  Xbox One, PC, Nintendo Switch Big alien monster. Gore. Space. 16 bit. Metroidvania. If that's not enough to get you up and buying this game immediately, then I don't know how to help you.  has players take control of a menacing space creature in a 16-bit space station, getting them to cleverly strike against the colony inhabitants, and bringing a whole new playstyle and moveset to an otherwise tired gaming genre. The title just came out, but for a $20 price tag it's an easy pick-up-and-go option. Stay scared and  my friends.  