
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 While the PS4 remains our overall preferred choice in the game console race, the Xbox One's significant course corrections and solid exclusives make it a compelling alternative. The best Mario Kart game ever gets even better on Switch, and its multiplayer modes make it great for groups. Wasteland 2 is genuine fun, packed with enough lore to make you want to keep exploring and adventuring, well past your bedtime. The Witness is a game that you'd never expect. Here's why it's the perfect experience for nearly everyone. A nearly infinite universe, ready to be explored: Here's what it's like to finally play No Man's Sky for the first time. PlayerUnknown's Battlegrounds has arrived on phones. Here's how to keep up with the PC and Xbox crowd. Real toy spaceships come to life in a video game -- complete with swappable parts and weaponry. The Frozen Wilds is a must-own expansion for Horizon Zero Dawn fans, with a solid new story full of intrigue and emotion. Available on the Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4 and PC, it's the game fans of the genre have been missing for ages. Sparc is a two-player game for the PlayStation VR which lets users hurl glowing balls in what the developers hope will become an official esport. It’s weird to love a $300 video game. But that’s the funny thing about nostalgia. Inside is a brilliant work of atmosphere that tells a twisted and engaging story. It's smart, bizarre and one the finest gaming experiences of the year. Majora's Mask looks great on the 3DS, but if you've already had the pleasure, there's not much new content worth a second go. Super Mario Odyssey is a brilliant addition to the library of Nintendo's most notable character and is an absolute must-own for anyone with a Nintendo Switch -- and a prime reason to buy one if you don't have one already. Axiom Verge is an indie game that mixes equal parts Metroid and Castlevania to make for a fantastic throwback adventure. Due out this fall, the next installment in the popular Skylanders franchise will feature characters that have swappable tops and bottoms.  Magic Duels' tutorial mode is among the best ways to learn to play Magic, but interface problems and poor cross-device support mean the average player should look elsewhere for their fix. Nevermind is a unique horror experience that steps outside the normal jump-scares to deliver something tense and personal. Although it's short, it's intense, especially if you make use of the biofeedback. 